section: title
Gated-Attention Readers for Text Comprehension
section: abstract
In this paper we study the problem of answering cloze-style questions over documents. Our model, the Gated-Attention (GA) Reader 1 , integrates a multi-hop architecture with a novel attention mechanism , which is based on multiplicative interactions between the query embedding and the intermediate states of a recurrent neural network document reader. This enables the reader to build query-specific representations of tokens in the document for accurate answer selection. The GA Reader obtains state-of-the-art results on three benchmarks for this task-the CNN & Daily Mail news stories and the Who Did What dataset. The effectiveness of multi-plicative interaction is demonstrated by an ablation study, and by comparing to alternative compositional operators for implementing the gated-attention.
section: Introduction
A recent trend to measure progress towards machine reading is to test a system's ability to answer questions about a document it has to comprehend. Towards this end, several large-scale datasets of cloze-style questions over a context document have been introduced recently, which allow the training of supervised machine learning systems (. Such datasets can be easily constructed automatically and the unambiguous nature of their queries provides an objective benchmark to measure a system's performance at text comprehension.
Deep learning models have been shown to outperform traditional shallow approaches on text comprehension tasks (). The success of many recent models can be attributed primarily to two factors: (1) Multi-hop architectures (), allow a model to scan the document and the question iteratively for multiple passes. (2) Attention mechanisms,) borrowed from the machine translation literature (), allow the model to focus on appropriate subparts of the context document. Intuitively, the multi-hop architecture allows the reader to incrementally refine token representations, and the attention mechanism re-weights different parts in the document according to their relevance to the query.
The effectiveness of multi-hop reasoning and attentions have been explored orthogonally so far in the literature. In this paper, we focus on combining both in a complementary manner, by designing a novel attention mechanism which gates the evolving token representations across hops. More specifically, unlike existing models where the query attention is applied either token-wise () or sentence-wise () to allow weighted aggregation, the Gated-Attention (GA) module proposed in this work allows the query to directly interact with each dimension of the token embeddings at the semantic-level, and is applied layer-wise as information filters during the multi-hop representation learning process. Such a fine-grained attention enables our model to learn conditional token representations w.r.t. the given question, leading to accurate answer selections.
We show in our experiments that the proposed GA reader, despite its relative simplicity, consis-tently improves over a variety of strong baselines on three benchmark datasets . Our key contribution, the GA module, provides a significant improvement for large datasets. Qualitatively, visualization of the attentions at intermediate layers of the GA reader shows that in each layer the GA reader attends to distinct salient aspects of the query which help in determining the answer.
section: Related Work
The cloze-style QA task involves tuples of the form (d, q, a, C), where dis a document (context), q is a query over the contents of d, in which a phrase is replaced with a placeholder, and a is the answer to q, which comes from a set of candidates C. In this work we consider datasets where each candidate c ∈ C has at least one token which also appears in the document. The task can then be described as: given a document-query pair (d, q), find a ∈ C which answers q. Below we provide an overview of representative neural network architectures which have been applied to this problem.
LSTMs with Attention: Several architectures introduced in employ LSTM units to compute a combined document-query representation g(d, q), which is used to rank the candidate answers. These include the DeepLSTM Reader which performs a single forward pass through the concatenated (document, query) pair to obtain g(d, q); the Attentive Reader which first computes a document vector d(q) by a weighted aggregation of words according to attentions based on q, and then combines d(q) and q to obtain their joint representation g(d(q), q); and the Impatient Reader where the document representation is built incrementally. The architecture of the Attentive Reader has been simplified recently in Stanford Attentive Reader, where shallower recurrent units were used with a bilinear form for the query-document attention .
Attention Sum: The Attention-Sum (AS) Reader ( ) uses two bidirectional GRU networks () to encode both d and q into vectors. A probability distribution over the entities ind is obtained by computing dot products between q and the entity embeddings and taking a softmax. Then, an aggregation scheme named pointer-sum attention is further applied to sum the probabilities of the same entity, so that frequent entities the document will be favored compared to rare ones. Building on the AS Reader, the Attention-over-Attention (AoA)) introduces a two-way attention mechanism where the query and the document are mutually attentive to each other.
Mulit-hop Architectures: Memory Networks (MemNets) were proposed in , where each sentence in the document is encoded to a memory by aggregating nearby words. Attention over the memory slots given the query is used to compute an overall memory and to renew the query representation over multiple iterations, allowing certain types of reasoning over the salient facts in the memory and the query. Neural Semantic Encoders (NSE)) extended MemNets by introducing a write operation which can evolve the memory overtime during the course of reading. Iterative reasoning has been found effective in several more recent models, including the Iterative Attentive Reader (. The latter allows dynamic reasoning steps and is trained with reinforcement learning.
Other related works include Dynamic Entity Representation network (DER) (, which builds dynamic representations of the candidate answers while reading the document, and accumulates the information about an entity by max-pooling; consists of two networks, where one proposes a small set of candidate answers, and the other reranks the proposed candidates conditioned on the query and the context; Bi-Directional Attention Flow network (BiDAF) () adopts a multi-stage hierarchical architecture along with a flow-based attention mechanism;  showed a 10% improvement on the CBT corpus () by training the AS Reader on an augmented training set of about 14 million examples, making a case for the community to exploit data abundance. The focus of this paper, however, is on designing models which exploit the available data efficiently.
section: Gated-Attention Reader
Our proposed GA readers perform multiple hops over the document (context), similar to the Memory Networks architecture (. Multi-hop architectures mimic the multistep comprehension process of human readers, and have shown promising results in several recent models for text comprehension. The contextual representations in GA readers, namely the embeddings of words in the document, are iteratively refined across hops until reaching a final attention-sum module (  which maps the contextual representations in the last hop to a probability distribution over candidate answers.
The attention mechanism has been introduced recently to model human focus, leading to significant improvement in machine translation and image captioning (). In reading comprehension tasks, ideally, the semantic meanings carried by the contextual embeddings should be aware of the query across hops. As an example, human readers are able to keep the question in mind during multiple passes of reading, to successively mask away information irrelevant to the query. However, existing neural network readers are restricted to either attend to tokens ( or entire sentences ( , with the assumption that certain sub-parts of the document are more important than others. In contrast, we propose a finer-grained model which attends to components of the semantic representation being built up by the GRU. The new attention mechanism, called gated-attention, is implemented via multiplicative interactions between the query and the contextual embeddings, and is applied per hop to act as fine-grained information filters during the multi-step reasoning. The filters weigh individual components of the vector representation of each token in the document separately.
The design of gated-attention layers is motivated by the effectiveness of multiplicative interaction among vector-space representations, e.g., in various types of recurrent units and in relational learning (). While other types of compositional operators are possible, such as concatenation or addition, we find that multiplication has strong empirical performance (section 4.3), where query representations naturally serve as information filters across hops.
section: Model Details
Several components of the model use a Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) () which maps an input sequence
as follows:
where denotes the Hadamard product or the element-wise multiplication. rt and z tare called the reset and update gates respectively, and˜hand˜ and˜h t the candidate output. A Bi-directional GRU (Bi-GRU) processes the sequence in both forward and backward directions to produce two sequences
where ←→ GRU(X) denotes the full output of the Bi-GRU obtained by concatenating each forward state hf i and backward state h b T −i+1 at step i given the input X. Note
where n h is the number of hidden units in GRU.
Let
|D| ] denote the token embeddings of the document, which are also inputs at layer 1 for the document reader below, and Y = [y 1 , y 2 , . . . y |Q| ] denote the token embeddings of the query. Here |D| and |Q| denote the document and query lengths respectively. illustrates the Gated-Attention (GA) reader. The model reads the document and the query over K horizontal layers, where layer k receives the contextual embeddings X (k−1) of the document from the previous layer. The document embeddings are transformed by taking the full output of a document Bi-GRU (indicated in blue in):
section: Multi-Hop Architecture
At the same time, a layer-specific query representation is computed as the full output of a separate query Bi-GRU (indicated in green in):
Next, Gated-Attention is applied to D (k) and Q (k) to compute inputs for the next layer X (k) .
where GA is defined in the following subsection. : Gated-Attention Reader. Dashed lines represent dropout connections.
section: Gated-Attention Module
For brevity, let us drop the superscript kin this subsection as we are focusing on a particular layer. For each token d i in D, the GA module forms a token-specific representation of the query˜qquery˜ query˜q i using soft attention, and then multiplies the query representation element-wise with the document token representation. Specifically, for i = 1, . . . , |D|:
In equation (6) we use the multiplication operator to model the interactions between d i and˜qand˜ and˜q i . In the experiments section, we also report results for other choices of gating functions, including addition xi = d i + ˜ q i and concatenation xi = d i ˜ q i .
section: Answer Prediction
Let q
bean intermediate output of the final layer query Bi-GRU at the location of the cloze token in the query, and
) be the full output of final layer document Bi-GRU. To obtain the probability that a particular token in the document answers the query, we take an inner-product between these two, and pass through a softmax layer:
where vector s defines a probability distribution over the |D| tokens in the document. The probability of a particular candidate c ∈ C as being the answer is then computed by aggregating the probabilities of all document tokens which appear inc and renormalizing over the candidates:
where I(c, d) is the set of positions where a token inc appears in the document d. This aggregation operation is the same as the pointer sum attention applied in the AS Reader ( . Finally, the candidate with maximum probability is selected as the predicted answer:
During the training phase, model parameters of GA are updated w.r.t. a cross-entropy loss between the predicted probabilities and the true answers.
section: Further Enhancements
Character-level Embeddings: Given a token w from the document or query, its vector space representation is computed as x = L(w)||C(w). L(w) retrieves the word-embedding for w from a lookup table L ∈ R |V |×n l , whose rows hold a vector for each unique token in the vocabulary. We also utilize a character composition model C(w) which generates an orthographic embedding of the token. Such embeddings have been previously shown to be helpful for tasks like Named Entity Recognition ( and dealing with OOV tokens attest time (. The embedding C(w) is generated by taking the final outputs z f nc and z b nc of a Bi-GRU applied to embeddings from a lookup table of characters in the token, and applying a linear transformation:
We conducted several experiments both with and without this feature and observed some interesting trends, which are discussed below. Henceforth, we refer to this feature as the qe-comm feature or just feature.
section: Experiments and Results
section: Datasets
We evaluate the GA reader on five large-scale datasets recently proposed in the literature. The first two, CNN and Daily Mail news stories 2 consist of articles from the popular CNN and Daily Mail websites (. A query over each article is formed by removing an entity from the short summary which follows the article. Further, entities within each article were anonymized to make the task purely a comprehension one. N-gram statistics, for instance, computed over the entire corpus are no longer useful in such an anonymized corpus.
The next two datasets are formed from two different subsets of the Children's Book Test (CBT). Documents consist of 20 contiguous sentences from the body of a popular children's book, and queries are formed by deleting a token from the 21 st sentence. We only focus on subsets where the deleted token is either a common noun (CN) or named entity (NE) since simple language models already give human-level performance on the other types (cf.). The final dataset is Who Did What 4 (WDW) (, constructed from the LDC English Gigaword newswire corpus. First, article pairs which appeared around the same time and with overlapping entities are chosen, and then one article forms the document and a cloze query is constructed from the other. Missing tokens are always person named entities. Questions which are easily answered by simple baselines are filtered out, to make the task more challenging. There are two versions of the training set-a small but focused "Strict" version and a large but noisy "Relaxed" version. We report results on both settings which share the same validation and test sets. Statistics of all the datasets used in our experiments are summarized in the Appendix). show a comparison of the performance of GA Reader with previously published results on WDW and CNN, Daily Mail, CBT datasets respectively. The numbers reported for GA Reader are for single best models, though we compare to both ensembles and single models from prior work. GA Reader--refers to an earlier version of the model, unpublished but described in a preprint, with the following differences-(1) it does not utilize token-specific attentions within the GA module, as described in equation, it does not use a character composition model, (3) it is initialized with word embeddings pretrained on the corpus itself rather than GloVe. A detailed analysis of these differences is studied in the next section. Here we present 4 variants of the latest GA Reader, using combinations of whether the qe-comm feature is used (+feature) or not, and whether the word lookup table L(w) is updated during training or fixed to its initial value. Other hyperparameters are listed in Appendix A.
section: Performance Comparison
Interestingly, we observe that feature engineering leads to significant improvements for WDW and CBT datasets, but not for CNN and Daily Mail datasets. We note that anonymization of the latter datasets means that there is already some feature engineering (it adds hints about whether a token is an entity), and these are much larger than the other four. In machine learning it is common to seethe effect of feature engineering diminish with increasing data size. Similarly, fixing the word embeddings provides an improvement for the WDW: Validation/Test accuracy (%) on WDW dataset for both "Strict" and "Relaxed" settings. Results with " †" are cf previously published works.
section: Model Strict Relaxed
Val  and CBT, but not for CNN and Daily Mail. This is not surprising given that the latter datasets are larger and less prone to overfitting.
Comparing with prior work, on the WDW dataset the basic version of the GA Reader outperforms all previously published models when trained on the Strict setting. By adding the qecomm feature the performance increases by 3.2% and 3.5% on the Strict and Relaxed settings respectively to set anew state of the art on this dataset. On the CNN and Daily Mail datasets the GA Reader leads to an improvement of 3.2% and 4.3% respectively over the best previous single models. They also outperform previous ensemble models, setting anew state of that art for both datasets. For CBT-NE, GA Reader with the qecomm feature outperforms all previous single and ensemble models except the AS Reader trained on the much larger BookTest Corpus ( . Lastly, on CBT-CN the GA Reader with the qe-comm feature outperforms all previously published single models except the NSE, and AS Reader trained on a larger corpus. For each of the 4 datasets on which GA achieves the top performance, we conducted one-sample proportion tests to test whether GA is significantly better than the second-best baseline. The p-values are 0.319 for CNN, <0.00001 for DailyMail, 0.028 for CBT-NE, and <0.00001 for WDW. In other words, GA statistically significantly outperforms all other baselines on 3 out of those 4 datasets at the 5% significance level. The results could be even more significant under paired tests, however we did not have access to the predictions from the baselines.
section: GA Reader Analysis
In this section we do an ablation study to seethe effect of Gated Attention. We compare the GA Reader as described hereto a model which is exactly the same in all aspects, except that it passes document embeddings D in each layer directly to the inputs of the next layer without using the GA module. In other words X (k) = D (k) for all k > 0. This model ends up using only one query GRU at the output layer for selecting the answer from the document. We compare these two variants both with and without the qe-comm feature on CNN and WDW datasets for three subsets of the training data -50%, 75% and 100%. Test set accuracies for these settings are shown in. On CNN when tested without feature engineering, we observe that GA provides a significant boost in performance compared to without GA. When tested with the feature it still gives an improvement, but the improvement is significant only with 100% training data. On WDW-Strict, which is a third of the size of CNN, without the feature we see an improvement when using GA versus without using GA, which becomes significant as the training set size increases. When tested with the feature on WDW, fora small data size without GA does better than with GA, but as the dataset size increases they become equivalent. We conclude that GA provides a boost in the absence of feature engineering, or as the training set size increases.
Next we look at the question of how to gate intermediate document reader states from the query, i.e. what operation to use in equation 6.: Validation/Test accuracy (%) on CNN, Daily Mail and CBT. Results marked with " †" are cf previously published works. Results marked with " ‡" were obtained by training on a larger training set. Best performance on standard training sets is in bold, and on larger training sets in italics. 2 (top) shows the performance on WDW dataset for three common choices -sum (x = d + q), concatenate (x = dq) and multiply (x = d q). Empirically we find element-wise multiplication does significantly better than the other two, which justifies our motivation to "filter" out document features which are irrelevant to the query.
section: Model
At the bottom of we show the effect of varying the number of hops K of the GA Reader on the final performance. We note that for K = 1, our model is equivalent to the AS Reader without any GA modules. We see a steep and steady rise inaccuracy as the number of hops is increased from K = 1 to 3, which remains constant beyond that. This is a common trend in machine learning as model complexity is increased, however we note that a multi-hop architecture is important to achieve a high performance for this task, and provide further evidence for this in the next section. shows accuracy on WDW by removing one component at a time. The steepest reduction is observed when we replace pretrained GloVe vectors with those pretrained on the corpus itself. GloVe vectors were trained on a large corpus of about 6 billion tokens (, and provide an important source of prior knowl-: Performance inaccuracy with and without the Gated-Attention module over different training sizes. p-values for an exact one-sided Mcnemar's test are given inside the parentheses for each setting.
section: Ablation Study for Model Components
section: Model Accuracy
Val Test edge for the model. Note that the strongest baseline on WDW, NSE, also uses pretrained GloVe vectors, hence the comparison is fair in that respect. Next, we observe a substantial drop when removing tokenspecific attentions over the query in the GA module, which allow gating individual tokens in the document only by parts of the query relevant to that token rather than the overall query representation. Finally, removing the character embeddings, which were only used for WDW and CBT, leads to a reduction of about 1% in the performance.
section: Attention Visualization
To gain an insight into the reading process employed by the model we analyzed the attention distributions at intermediate layers of the reader. A generic pattern observed in these examples is that in intermediate layers, candidates in the document (shown along rows) tend to pick out salient tokens in the query which provide clues about the cloze, and in the final layer the candidate with the highest match with these tokens is selected as the answer. In there is a high attention of the correct answer on financial regulatory standards in the first layer, and onus president in the second layer. The incorrect answer, in contrast, only attends to one of these aspects, and hence receives a lower score in the final layer despite the n-gram overlap it has with the cloze token in the query. Importantly, different layers tend to focus on different tokens in the query, supporting the hypothesis that the multihop architecture of GA Reader is able to combine distinct pieces of information to answer the query.
section: Conclusion
We presented the Gated-Attention reader for answering cloze-style questions over documents. The GA reader features a novel multiplicative gating mechanism, combined with a multi-hop architecture. Our model achieves the state-of-theart performance on several large-scale benchmark datasets with more than 4% improvements over competitive baselines. Our model design is backed up by an ablation study showing statistically significant improvements of using Gated Attention as information filters. We also showed empirically that multiplicative gating is superior to addi-: Layer-wise attention visualization of GA Reader trained on WDW-Strict. See text for details. tion and concatenation operations for implementing gated-attentions, though a theoretical justification remains part of future research goals. Analysis of document and query attentions in intermediate layers of the reader further reveals that the model iteratively attends to different aspects of the query to arrive at the final answer. In this paper we have focused on text comprehension, but we believe that the Gated-Attention mechanism may benefit other tasks as well where multiple sources of information interact.
