section: title
Semi-supervised sequence tagging with bidirectional language models
section: abstract
Pre-trained word embeddings learned from unlabeled text have become a standard component of neural network archi-tectures for NLP tasks. However, inmost cases, the recurrent network that operates on word-level representations to produce context sensitive representations is trained on relatively little labeled data. In this paper, we demonstrate a general semi-supervised approach for adding pre-trained context embeddings from bidi-rectional language models to NLP systems and apply it to sequence labeling tasks. We evaluate our model on two standard datasets for named entity recognition (NER) and chunking, and in both cases achieve state of the art results, surpassing previous systems that use other forms of transfer or joint learning with additional labeled data and task specific gazetteers.
section: Introduction
Due to their simplicity and efficacy, pre-trained word embedding have become ubiquitous in NLP systems. Many prior studies have shown that they capture useful semantic and syntactic information () and including them in NLP systems has been shown to be enormously helpful fora variety of downstream tasks).
However, in many NLP tasks it is essential to represent not just the meaning of a word, but also the word in context. For example, in the two phrases "A Central Bank spokesman" and "The Central African Republic", the word 'Central' is used as part of both an Organization and Location. Accordingly, current state of the art sequence tagging models typically include a bidirectional recurrent neural network (RNN) that encodes token sequences into a context sensitive representation before making token specific predictions (.
Although the token representation is initialized with pre-trained embeddings, the parameters of the bidirectional RNN are typically learned only on labeled data. Previous work has explored methods for jointly learning the bidirectional RNN with supplemental labeled data from other tasks (e.g.,.
In this paper, we explore an alternate semisupervised approach which does not require additional labeled data. We use a neural language model (LM), pre-trained on a large, unlabeled corpus to compute an encoding of the context at each position in the sequence (hereafter an LM embedding) and use it in the supervised sequence tagging model. Since the LM embeddings are used to compute the probability of future words in a neural LM, they are likely to encode both the semantic and syntactic roles of words in context.
Our main contribution is to show that the context sensitive representation captured in the LM embeddings is useful in the supervised sequence tagging setting. When we include the LM embeddings in our system overall performance increases from 90.87% to 91.93% F 1 for the CoNLL 2003 NER task, a more then 1% absolute F1 increase, and a substantial improvement over the previous state of the art. We also establish anew state of the art result (96.37% F 1 ) for the CoNLL 2000 Chunking task.
As a secondary contribution, we show that using both forward and backward LM embeddings boosts performance over a forward only LM. We also demonstrate that domain specific pre-training is not necessary by applying a LM trained in the news domain to scientific papers.
section: Language model augmented sequence taggers (TagLM) 2.1 Overview
The main components in our language-modelaugmented sequence tagger (TagLM) are illustrated in. After pre-training word embeddings and a neural LM on large, unlabeled corpora (Step 1), we extract the word and LM embeddings for every token in a given input sequence (Step 2) and use them in the supervised sequence tagging model (Step 3).
section: Baseline sequence tagging model
Our baseline sequence tagging model is a hierarchical neural tagging model, closely following a number of recent studies) (left side of). Given a sentence of tokens (t 1 , t 2 , . . . , t N ) it first forms a representation, x k , for each token by concatenating a character based representation ck with a token embedding wk :
The character representation ck captures morphological information and is either a convolutional neural network (CNN) () or RNN (). It is parameterized by C(·, θ c ) with parameters θ c . The token embeddings, wk , are obtained as a lookup E(·, θ w ), initialized using pre-trained word embeddings, and fine tuned during training). To learn a context sensitive representation, we employ multiple layers of bidirectional RNNs. For each token position, k, the hidden state h k,i of RNN layer i is formed by concatenating the hidden states from the forward ( − → h k,i ) and backward ( ← − h k,i ) RNNs. As a result, the bidirectional RNN is able to use both past and future information to make a prediction at token k. More formally, for the first RNN layer that operates on x k to output h k,1 :
Step 2: Prepare word embedding and LM embedding for each token in the input sequence.
The need to capture future context in the LM embeddings suggests itis beneficial to also consider a \textit{backward} LM in additionalto the traditional \textit{forward} LM. A backward LM predicts the previous token given the future context. Given a sentence with $N$ tokens, it computes\[P(t _ { k -1} | t_k, t_{k+1}, ..., t_N). \]A back w a rd LM can be implemThe need to capture future context in the LM embeddings suggests itis beneficial to also consider a \textit{backward} LM in additionalto the traditional \textit{forward} LM . A back w a rd LM pr edict st he pr ev i oust ok en g iv en the fut ur e context. Given a sentence with $N$ tokens, it computes\[P(t _ { k -1} | t_k, t_{k+1}, ..., t_N). \]A back w a rd LM can be i mpl e me nt ed in an analogous way to a forward LM and produces an embedding $\ov erleftarrow{\ma t hbf{h}}^{LM}_k$, for the sequence $(t_k, t_{k+1}, ..., t_N)$, the output embeddings of the top layer LSTM. The need to capture future context in the LM embeddings suggests itis beneficial to also consider a \textit{backward} LM in additionalto the traditional \textit{forward} LM. A backward LM predicts the previous token given the future context. Given a sentence with $N$ tokens, it computes\[P(t _ { k -1} | t_k, t_{k+1}, ..., t_N). \]A back w a rd LM can be i mpl ement ed in an a na log ous w a y to a for w a rd LM and produces an embedding $\ov erleftarrow{\ma t hbf{h}}^{LM}_k$, for the sequence $(t_k, t_{k+1}, ..., t_N)$, the output embeddings of the top layer LS TM .ent ed in an analogous way to a forward LM and produces an embedding $\ov erleftarrow{\ma t hbf{h}}^{LM}_k$, for the sequence $(t_k, t_{k+1}, ..., t_N)$, the output embeddings of the top layer LSTM.  Two representations of the word "York"
Step 3: Use both word embeddings and LM embeddings in the sequence tagging model. New York is located …:
The main components in TagLM, our language-model-augmented sequence tagging system. The language model component (in orange) is used to augment the input token representation in a traditional sequence tagging models (in grey).
The second RNN layer is similar and uses h k,1 to output h k,2 . In this paper, we use L = 2 layers of RNNs in all experiments and parameterize R i as either Gated Recurrent Units (GRU) ( or Long Short-Term Memory units (LSTM)) depending on the task.
Finally, the output of the final RNN layer h k,L is used to predict a score for each possible tag using a single dense layer. Due to the dependencies between successive tags in our sequence labeling tasks (e.g. using the BIOES labeling scheme, it is not possible for I-PER to follow B-LOC), it is beneficial to model and decode each sentence jointly instead of independently predicting the label for each token. Accordingly, we add another layer with parameters for each label bigram, computing the sentence conditional random field (CRF) loss () using the forward-backward algorithm at training time, and using the Viterbi algorithm to find the most likely tag sequence attest time, similar to Collobert et al. Figure 2: Overview of TagLM, our language model augmented sequence tagging architecture. The top level embeddings from a pre-trained bidirectional LM are inserted in a stacked bidirectional RNN sequence tagging model. See text for details.
section: Bidirectional LM
A language model computes the probability of a token sequence (t 1 , t 2 , . . . , t N )
Recent state of the art neural language models) use a similar architecture to our baseline sequence tagger where they pass a token representation (either from a CNN over characters or as token embeddings) through multiple layers of LSTMs to embed the history
. This is the forward LM embedding of the token at position k and is the output of the top LSTM layer in the language model. Finally, the language model predicts the probability of token t k+1 using a softmax layer over words in the vocabulary.
The need to capture future context in the LM embeddings suggests it is beneficial to also consider a backward LM in additional to the traditional forward LM. A backward LM predicts the previous token given the future context. Given a sentence with N tokens, it computes
A backward LM can be implemented in an analogous way to a forward LM and produces the backward LM embedding ← − h LM k , for the sequence (t k , t k+1 , . . . , t N ), the output embeddings of the top layer LSTM.
In our final system, after pre-training the forward and backward LMs separately, we remove the top layer softmax and concatenate the forward and backward LM embeddings to form bidirectional LM embeddings, i.e.,
Note that in our formulation, the forward and backward LMs are independent, without any shared parameters.
section: Combining LM with sequence model
Our combined system, TagLM, uses the LM embeddings as additional inputs to the sequence tagging model. In particular, we concatenate the LM embeddings h LM with the output from one of the bidirectional RNN layers in the sequence model. In our experiments, we found that introducing the LM embeddings at the output of the first layer performed the best. More formally, we simply replace (2) with
There are alternate possibilities for adding the LM embeddings to the sequence model. One possibility adds a non-linear mapping after the concatenation and before the second RNN (e.g. replacing (3) with
where f is a non-linear function). Another possibility introduces an attention-like mechanism that weights the all LM embeddings in a sentence before including them in the sequence model. Our initial results with the simple concatenation were encouraging so we did not explore these alternatives in this study, preferring to leave them for future work.
section: Experiments
We evaluate our approach on two well benchmarked sequence tagging tasks, the CoNLL 2003 NER task) and the). We report the official evaluation metric (micro-averaged F 1 ). In both cases, we use the BIOES labeling scheme for the output tags, following previous work which showed it outperforms other options (e.g., we trained on both the train and development sets after tuning hyperparameters on the development set.
The hyperparameters for our baseline model are similar to. We use two bidirectional GRUs with 80 hidden units and 25 dimensional character embeddings for the token character encoder. The sequence layer uses two bidirectional GRUs with 300 hidden units each. For regularization, we add 25% dropout to the input of each GRU, but not to the recurrent connections.
CoNLL 2000 chunking. The CoNLL 2000 chunking task uses sections 15-18 from the Wall Street Journal corpus for training and section 20 for testing. It defines 11 syntactic chunk types (e.g., NP, VP, ADJP) in addition to other. We randomly sampled 1000 sentences from the training set as a held-out development set.
The baseline sequence tagger uses 30 dimensional character embeddings and a CNN with 30 filters of width 3 characters followed by a tanh non-linearity for the token character encoder. The sequence layer uses two bidirectional LSTMs with 200 hidden units. Following we added 50% dropout to the character embeddings, the input to each LSTM layer (but not recurrent connections) and to the output of the final LSTM layer.
Pre-trained language models. The primary bidirectional LMs we used in this study were trained on the 1B Word Benchmark (), a publicly available benchmark for largescale language modeling. The training split has approximately 800 million tokens, about a 4000X increase over the number training tokens in the CoNLL datasets. explored several model architectures and released their best single model and training recipes. Following, they used linear projection layers at the output of each LSTM layer to reduce the computation time but still maintain a large LSTM state. Their single best model took three weeks to train on 32 GPUs and achieved 30.0 test perplexity. It uses a character CNN with 4096 filters for input, followed by two stacked LSTMs, each with 8192 hidden units and a 1024 dimensional projection layer. We use CNN-BIG-LSTM to refer to this language model in our results.
In addition to CNN-BIG-LSTM from, we used the same corpus to train two additional language models with fewer parameters: forward LSTM-2048-512 and backward LSTM-2048-512. Both language models use token embeddings as input to a single layer LSTM with 2048 units and a 512 dimension projection layer. We closely followed the procedure outlined in, except we used synchronous parameter updates across four GPUs instead of asynchronous updates across 32 GPUs and ended training after 10 epochs. The test set perplexities for our forward and backward LSTM-2048-512 language models are 47.7 and 47.3, respectively. Model F 1 ± std Chiu and Nichols (2016) 90.91 ± 0.20 90.94 91.37 Our baseline without LM 90.87 ± 0.13 TagLM 91.93 ± 0.19  Training. All experiments use the Adam optimizer () with gradient norms clipped at 5.0. In all experiments, we fine tune the pre-trained Senna word embeddings but fix all weights in the pre-trained language models. In addition to explicit dropout regularization, we also use early stopping to prevent over-fitting and use the following process to determine when to stop training. We first train with a constant learning rate α = 0.001 on the training data and monitor the development set performance at each epoch. Then, at the epoch with the highest development performance, we start a simple learning rate annealing schedule: decrease α an order of magnitude (i.e., divide by ten), train for five epochs, decrease α an order of magnitude again, train for five more epochs and stop. Following, we train each final model configuration ten times with different random seeds and report the mean and standard deviation F 1 . It is important to estimate the variance of model performance since the test data sets are relatively small. compare results from TagLM with previously published state of the art results without additional labeled data or task specific gazetteers. compare results of TagLM to other systems that include additional labeled data or gazetteers. In both tasks, TagLM establishes anew state of the art using bidirectional LMs (the forward CNN-BIG-LSTM and the backward LSTM-2048-512).
section: Overall system results
In the CoNLL 2003 NER task, our model scores 91.93 mean F 1 , which is a statistically significant increase over the previous best result of 91.62 ±0.33 from that used gazetteers (at 95%, two-sided Welch t-test, p = 0.021).
In the CoNLL 2000 Chunking task, TagLM achieves 96.37 mean F 1 , exceeding all previously published results without additional labeled data by more then 1% absolute F 1 . The improvement over the previous best result of 95.77 in that jointly trains with Penn Treebank (PTB) POS tags is statistically significant at 95% (p < 0.001 assuming standard deviation of 0.1).
Importantly, the LM embeddings amounts to an average absolute improvement of 1.06 and 1.37 F 1 in the NER and Chunking tasks, respectively.
Adding external resources. Although we do not use external labeled data or gazetteers, we found that TagLM outperforms previous state of the art results in both tasks when external resources (labeled data or task specific gazetteers) are available. Furthermore, show that, inmost cases, the improvements we obtain by adding LM embeddings are larger then the improvements previously obtained by adding other forms of transfer or joint learning. For example, noted an improvement of only 0.06 F 1 in the NER task when transfer learning from both CoNLL 2000 chunks and PTB POS tags and reported an increase of 0.71 F 1 when adding gazetteers to their baseline. In the Chunking task, previous work has reported from 0.28 to 0.75 improvement in F 1 when including supervised labels from the PTB POS tags or).
section: Analysis
To elucidate the characteristics of our LM augmented sequence tagger, we ran a number of additional experiments on the CoNLL 2003 NER task.
How to use LM embeddings? In this experiment, we concatenate the LM embeddings at dif-    Use LM embeddings at F 1 ± std input to the first RNN layer 91.55 ± 0.21 output of the first RNN layer 91.93 ± 0.19 output of the second RNN layer 91.72 ± 0.13 ferent locations in the baseline sequence tagger. In particular, we used the LM embeddings h LM k to:
• augment the input of the first RNN layer; i.e.,
• augment the output of the first RNN layer; i.e.,
• augment the output of the second RNN layer; i.e., shows that the second alternative performs best. We speculate that the second RNN layer in the sequence tagging model is able to capture interactions between task specific context as expressed in the first RNN layer and general context as expressed in the LM embeddings in away that improves overall system performance. These results are consistent with who found that chunking performance was sensitive to the level at which additional POS supervision was added.
section: Does it matter which language model to use?
In this experiment, we compare six different configurations of the forward and backward language models (including the baseline model which does not use any language models). The results are reported in.
We find that adding backward LM embeddings consistently outperforms forward-only LM embeddings, with F 1 improvements between 0.22 and 0.27%, even with the relatively small backward LSTM-2048-512 LM.
LM size is important, and replacing the forward LSTM-2048-512 with CNN-BIG-LSTM (test perplexities of 47.7 to 30.0 on 1B Word Benchmark) improves F 1 by 0.26 -0.31%, about as much as adding backward LM. Accordingly, we hypothesize (but have not tested) that replacing the backward LSTM-2048-512 with a backward LM analogous to the CNN-BIG-LSTM would further improve performance.
To highlight the importance of including language models trained on a large scale data, we also experimented with training a language model on just the CoNLL 2003 training and development data. Due to the much smaller size of this data Forward language model Backward language model LM perplexity F 1 ± std Fwd Bwd --N/A N/A 90.87 ± 0.13 LSTM-512-256 * LSTM-512-256 * 106.9 104.2 90.79 ± 0.15 LSTM-2048-512 -47.7 N/A 91.40 ± 0.18 LSTM-2048-512 LSTM-2048-512 47.7 47.3 91.62 ± 0.23 CNN-BIG-LSTM -30.0 N/A 91.66 ± 0.13 CNN-BIG-LSTM LSTM-2048-512 30.0 47.3 91.93 ± 0.19 set, we decreased the model size to 512 hidden units with a 256 dimension projection and normalized tokens in the same manner as input to the sequence tagging model (lower-cased, with all digits replaced with 0). The test set perplexities for the forward and backward models (measured on the CoNLL 2003 test data) were 106.9 and 104.2, respectively. Including embeddings from these language models decreased performance slightly compared to the baseline system without any LM. This result supports the hypothesis that adding language models help because they learn composition functions (i.e., the RNN parameters in the language model) from much larger data compared to the composition functions in the baseline tagger, which are only learned from labeled data.
Importance of task specific RNN. To understand the importance of including a task specific sequence RNN we ran an experiment that removed the task specific sequence RNN and used only the LM embeddings with a dense layer and CRF to predict output tags. In this setup, performance was very low, 88.17 F 1 , well below our baseline. This result confirms that the RNNs in the baseline tagger encode essential information which is not encoded in the LM embeddings. This is unsurprising since the RNNs in the baseline tagger are trained on labeled examples, unlike the RNN in the language model which is only trained on unlabeled examples. Note that the LM weights are fixed in this experiment.
Dataset size. A priori, we expect the addition of LM embeddings to be most beneficial in cases where the task specific annotated datasets are small. To test this hypothesis, we replicated the setup from are 3.97% for cross-lingual transfer from CoNLL 2002 Spanish NER and 6.28% F 1 for transfer from PTB POS tags. However, they found only a 0.06% F 1 increase when using the full training data and transferring from both CoNLL 2000 chunks and PTB POS tags. Taken together, this suggests that for very small labeled training sets, transferring from other tasks yields a large improvement, but this improvement almost disappears when the training data is large. On the other hand, our approach is less dependent on the training set size and significantly improves performance even with larger training sets.
Number of parameters. Our TagLM formulation increases the number of parameters in the second RNN layer R 2 due to the increase in the input dimension h 1 if all other hyperparameters are held constant. To confirm that this did not have a material impact on the results, we ran two additional experiments. In the first, we trained a system without a LM but increased the second RNN layer hidden dimension so that number of parameters was the same as in TagLM. In this case, performance decreased slightly (by 0.15% F 1 ) compared to the baseline model, indicating that solely increasing parameters does not improve performance. In the second experiment, we decreased the hidden dimension of the second RNN layer in TagLM to give it the same number of parameters as the baseline no LM model. In this case, test F 1 increased slightly to 92.00 ± 0.11 indicating that the additional parameters in TagLM are slightly hurting performance. 4
Does the LM transfer across domains? One artifact of our evaluation framework is that both the labeled data in the chunking and NER tasks and the unlabeled text in the 1 Billion Word Benchmark used to train the bidirectional LMs are derived from news articles. To test the sensitivity to the LM training domain, we also applied TagLM with a LM trained on news articles to the SemEval 2017 Shared Task 10, ScienceIE. 5 ScienceIE requires end-to-end joint entity and relationship extraction from scientific publications across three diverse fields (computer science, material sciences, and physics) and defines three broad entity types (Task, Material and Process). For this task, TagLM increased F 1 on the development set by 4.12% (from 49.93 to to 54.05%) for entity extraction over our baseline without LM embeddings and it was a major component in our winning submission to ScienceIE, Scenario 1 (. We conclude that LM embeddings can improve the performance of a sequence tagger even when the data comes from a different domain.
section: Related work
Unlabeled data. TagLM was inspired by the widespread use of pre-trained word embeddings in supervised sequence tagging models. Besides pre-trained word embeddings, our method is most closely related to. Instead of using a LM, uses a probabilistic generative model to infer contextsensitive latent variables for each token, which are then used as extra features in a supervised CRF tagger (). Other semisupervised learning methods for structured prediction problems include co-training), expectation maximization (), structural learning (Ando and) and maximum discriminant functions (. It is easy to combine TagLM with any of the above methods by including LM embeddings as additional features in the discriminative components of the model (except for expectation maximization). A detailed discussion of semisupervised learning methods in NLP can be found in. learned a context encoder from unlabeled data with an objective function similar to a bi-directional LM and applied it to several NLP tasks closely related to the unlabeled objective function: sentence completion, lexical substitution and word sense disambiguation.
LM embeddings are related to a class of methods (e.g.,) for learning sentence and document encoders from unlabeled data, which can be used for text classification and textual entailment among other tasks. pre-trained LSTMs using language models and sequence autoencoders then fine tuned the weights for classification tasks. In contrast to our method that uses unlabeled data to learn token-in-context embeddings, all of these methods use unlabeled data to learn an encoder for an entire text sequence (sentence or document).
Neural language models. LMs have always been a critical component in statistical machine translation systems. Recently, neural LMs ( have also been integrated in neural machine translation systems (e.g.,) to score candidate translations. In contrast, TagLM uses neural LMs to encode words in the input sequence.
Unlike forward LMs, bidirectional LMs have received little prior attention. Most similar to our formulation, used a bidirectional neural LM in a statistical machine translation system for instance selection. They tied the input token embeddings and softmax weights in the forward and backward directions, unlike our approach which uses two distinct models without any shared parameters. also used a bidirectional n-gram LM for handwriting recognition.
Interpreting RNN states. Recently, there has been some interest in interpreting the activations of RNNs. showed that single LSTM units can learn to predict singular-plural distinctions. visualized character level LSTM states and showed that individual cells capture long-range dependencies such as line lengths, quotes and brackets. Our work complements these studies by showing that LM states are useful for downstream tasks as away of interpreting what they learn.
Other sequence tagging models. Current state of the art results in sequence tagging problems are based on bidirectional RNN models. However, many other sequence tagging models have been proposed in the literature for this class of problems (e.g.,). LM embeddings could also be used as additional features in other models, although it is not clear whether the model complexity would be sufficient to effectively make use of them.
section: Conclusion
In this paper, we proposed a simple and general semi-supervised method using pre-trained neural language models to augment token representations in sequence tagging models. Our method significantly outperforms current state of the art models in two popular datasets for NER and Chunking. Our analysis shows that adding a backward LM in addition to traditional forward LMs consistently improves performance. The proposed method is robust even when the LM is trained on unlabeled data from a different domain, or when the baseline model is trained on a large number of labeled examples.
