section: title
Morphosyntactic Tagging with a Meta-BiLSTM Model over Context Sensitive Token Encodings
section: abstract
The rise of neural networks, and particularly recurrent neural networks, has produced significant advances in part-of-speech tagging accuracy (Zeman et al., 2017). One characteristic common among these models is the presence of rich initial word encodings. These encod-ings typically are composed of a recurrent character-based representation with learned and pre-trained word embeddings. However, these encodings do not consider a context wider than a single word and it is only through subsequent recurrent layers that word or sub-word information interacts. In this paper, we investigate models that use recurrent neural networks with sentence-level context for initial character and word-based representations. In particular we show that optimal results are obtained by integrating these context sensitive representations through synchronized training with a meta-model that learns to combine their states. We present results on part-of-speech and morphological tagging with state-of-the-art performance on a number of languages.
section: Introduction
Morphosyntactic tagging accuracy has seen dramatic improvements through the adoption of recurrent neural networks-specifically BiLSTMs () to create sentence-level context sensitive encodings of words. A successful recipe is to first create an initial context insensitive word representation, which usually has three main parts: 1) A dynamically trained word embedding; 2) a fixed pre-trained word-embedding, induced from a large corpus; and 3) a sub-word character model, which itself is usually the final state of a recurrent model that ingests one character at a time. Such word/sub-word models originated with. Recently, used precisely such a context insensitive word representation as input to a BiLSTM in order to obtain context sensitive word encodings used to predict partof-speech tags. The Dozat et al. model had the highest accuracy of all participating systems in the CoNLL 2017 shared task (.
In such a model, sub-word character-based representations only interact indirectly via subsequent recurrent layers. For example, consider the sentence I had shingles, which is a painful disease. Context insensitive character and word representations may have learned that for unknown or infrequent words like 'shingles', 's' and more so 'es' is a common way to end a plural noun. It is up to the subsequent BiLSTM layer to override this once it sees the singular verb is to the right. Note that this differs from traditional linear models where word and sub-word representations are directly concatenated with similar features in the surrounding context (.
In this paper we aim to investigate to what extent having initial sub-word and word context insensitive representations affects performance. We propose a novel model where we learn context sensitive initial character and word representations through two separate sentence-level recurrent models. These are then combined via a metaBiLSTM model that builds a unified representation of each word that is then used for syntactic tagging. Critically, while each of these three models-character, word and meta-are trained synchronously, they are ultimately separate models using different network configurations, training hyperparameters and loss functions. Empirically, we found this optimal as it allowed control over the fact that each representation has a different learning capacity.
We tested the system on the 2017 CoNLL shared task data sets and gain improvements compared to the top performing systems for the majority of languages for part-of-speech and morphological tagging. As we will see, a pattern emerged where gains were largest for morphologically rich languages, especially those in the Slavic family group. We also applied the approach to the benchmark English PTB data, where our model achieved 97.9 using the standard train/dev/test split, which constitutes a relative reduction in error of 12% over the previous best system.
section: Related Work
While sub-word representations are often attributed to the advent of deep learning in NLP, it was, in fact, commonplace for linear featurized machine learning methods to incorporate such representations. While the literature is too large to enumerate, is a good example of an accurate linear model that uses both word and sub-word features. Specifically, like most systems of the time, they use ngram affix features, which were made context sensitive via manually constructed conjunctions with features from other words in a fixed window. was perhaps the first modern neural network for tagging. While this first study used only word embeddings, a subsequent model extended the representation to include suffix embeddings).
The seminal dependency parsing paper of led to a number of tagging papers that used their basic architecture of highly featurized (and embedded) feed-forward neural networks., for example, studied this architecture in a low resource setting using word, sub-word (prefix/suffix) and induced cluster features to obtain competitive accuracy with the state-of-the-art., and extended the work of Chen et al. to a structured prediction setting, the later two use again a mix of word and sub-word features.
The idea of using a recurrent layer over characters to induce a complementary view of a word has occurred in numerous papers. Perhaps the earliest is who compare character-based LSTM encodings to traditional word-based embeddings. take this a step further and combine the word embeddings with a recurrent character encoding of the word-instead of just relying on one or the other. use a sentencelevel character LSTM encoding for parsing. show that contextual embeddings using character convolutions improve accuracy for number of NLP tasks. is probably the jumping-off point for most current architectures for tagging models with recurrent neural networks. Specifically, they used a combined word embedding and recurrent character encoding as the initial input to a BiLSTM that generated context sensitive word encodings. Though, like most previous studies, these initial encodings were context insensitive and relied on subsequent layers to encode sentence-level interactions.
Finally, showed that subword/word combination representations lead to state-of-the-art morphosyntactic tagging accuracy across a number of languages in the CoNLL 2017 shared task (. Their word representation consisted of three parts: 1) A dynamically trained word embedding; 2) a fixed pretrained word embedding; 3) a character LSTM encoding that summed the final state of the recurrent model with vector constructed using an attention mechanism overall character states. Again, the initial representations are all context insensitive. As this model is currently the state-of-the-art in morphosyntactic tagging, it will serve as a baseline during our discussion and experiments.
section: Models
In this section, we introduce models that we investigate and experiment within §4.
section: Sentence-based Character Model
The feature that distinguishes our model most from previous work is that we apply a bidirectional recurrent layer (LSTM) on all characters of a sentence to induce fully context sensitive initial word encodings. That is, we do not restrict the context of this layer to the words themselves (as in). shows the sentence-based character model applied to an example token in context.
The character model uses, as input, sentences split into UTF8 characters. We include the spaces between the tokens 1 in the input and map each  character to a dynamically learned embedding.
Next, a forward LSTM reads the characters from left to right and a backward LSTM reads sentences from right to left, in standard BiLSTM fashion.
More formally, for an n-character sentence, we apply for each character embedding (e char 1 , ..., e char n ) a BiLSTM:
As is also typical, we can have multiple such layers (l) that feed into each other through the concatenation of previous layer encodings.
The last layer l has both forward (f l c,1 , ..., fl c,n ) and backward (b l c,1 , ..., bl c,n ) output vectors for each character.
To create word encodings, we need to combine a relevant subset of these context sensitive character encodings. These word encodings can then be used in a model that assigns morphosyntactic tags to each word directly or via subsequent layers. To accomplish this, the model concatenates up to four character output vectors: the {forward, backward} output of the {first, last} character in the token (
In, the four shaded boxes indicate these four outputs for the example token.
Thus, the proposed model concatenates all four of these and passes it as input to an multilayer perceptron (MLP):
A tag can then be predicted with a linear classifier that takes as input the output of the MLP enized/segmented.
, applies a softmax function and chooses for each word the tag with highest probability. Table 8 investigates the empirical impact of alternative definitions of g i that concatenate only subsets
section: Word-based Character Model
To investigate whether a sentence sensitive character model is better than a character model where the context is restricted to the characters of a word, we reimplemented the word-based character model of overall characters. We refer the reader to those works for more details. Critically, however, all the information fed to this representation comes from the word itself, and not a wider sentence-level context.
section: Sentence-based Word Model
We used a similar setup for our context sensitive word encodings as the character encodings. There area few differences. Obviously, the inputs are the words of the sentence. For each of the words, we use pretrained word embeddings (p word The summed embeddings in i are passed as input to one or more BiLSTM layers whose output fl w,i , bl w,i is concatenated and used as the final encoding, which is then passed to an MLP
It should be noted, that the output of this BiL-STM is essentially the Dozat et al. model before tag prediction, with the exception that the wordbased character encodings are excluded.
section: Meta-BiLSTM: Model Combination
Given initial word encodings, both character and word-based, a common strategy is to pass these through a sentence-level BiLSTM to create context sensitive encodings, e.g., this is precisely what and do. However, we found that if we trained each of the character-based and word-based encodings with their own loss, and combined them using an additional meta-BiLSTM model, we obtained optimal performance. In the meta-BiLSTM model, we concatenate the output, for each word, of its context sensitive character and word-based encodings, and put this through another BiLSTM to create an additional combined context sensitive encoding. This is followed by a final MLP whose output is passed to a linear layer for tag prediction.
With this setup, each of the models can be optimized independently which we describe in more detail in §3.5. depicts the architecture of the combined system and contrasts it with that of the Dozat et al. model).
section: Training Schema
As mentioned in the previous section, the character and word-based encoding models have their own tagging loss functions, which are trained independently and joined via the meta-BiLSTM. I.e., the loss of each model is minimized independently by separate optimizers with their own hyperparameters. Thus, it is in some sense a multitask learning model and we must define a schedule in which individual models are updated. We opted fora simple synchronous schedule outline in Algorithm 1. Here, during each epoch, we update each of the models in sequence-character, word and meta-using the entire training data.
Data: train-corpus, dev-corpus / * The following models are defined in §3. * / Input: char-model, word-model, meta-model / * Model optimizers * / Input: char-opt, word-opt, meta-opt / * Results are parameter sets for each model. * / Result: best-char, best-word, best-meta / * Initialize parameter sets (cf.) * / Initialize(pac, paw, pam) / * Iteration on over training corpus.
* / for epoch = 1 to MAX do / * Update character model. * / char-logits, char-preds = char-model(train-corpus, pac) pac = char-opt.update(char-preds, train-data) / * Update word model. * / word-logits, word-preds = word-model(train-corpus, paw) paw = word-opt.update(char-preds, train-data) / * Update Meta-BiLSTM * / meta-preds = meta-model(train-corpus, pac, paw, pam) pam = meta-opt.update(train-corpus, meta-preds) / * Evaluate model due to dev set accuracy. * / F1 = DevEval(parc, parw, parm) / * Keep the best model. * / if F1 > best-F1 then best-char = pac; best-word = paw best-meta = pam; best-F1 = F1 end end Algorithm 1: Training procedure for learning initial character and word-based context sensitive encodings synchronously with meta-BiLSTM.
In terms of model selection, after each epoch, the algorithm evaluates the tagging accuracy of the development set and keeps the parameters of the best model. Accuracy is measured using the meta-BiLSTM tagging layer, which requires a forward pass through all three models. Though we use all three losses to update the models, only the meta-BiLSTM layer is used for model selection and test-time prediction.
While each of the three models-character, word and meta-are trained with their own loss functions, it should be emphasized that training is synchronous in the sense that the meta-BiLSTM model is trained in tandem with the two encoding models, and not after those models have converged. Since accuracy from the meta-BiLSTM model on the development set determines the best parameters, training is not completely independent. We found this to improve accuracy overall. Crucially, when we allowed the meta-BiLSTM to back-propagate through the whole network, per-   formance degraded regardless of whether one or multiple loss functions were used. Each language could in theory use separate hyperparameters, optimized for highest accuracy. However, for our main experiments we use identical settings for each language which worked well for large corpora and simplified things. We provide an overview of the selected hyperparameters in §4.1. We explored more settings for selected individual languages with a grid search and ablation experiments and present the results in §5.
section: Experiments and Results
In this section, we present the experimental setup and the selected hyperparameter for the main experiments where we use the CoNLL Shared Task 2017 treebanks and compare with the best systems of the shared task.
section: Experimental Setup
For our main results, we selected one network configuration and set of the hyperparameters. These settings are not optimal for all languages. However, since hyperparameter exploration is computationally demanding due to the number of languages we optimized these hyperparameters on initial development data experiments over a few languages.
section: Data Sets
For the experiments, we use the data sets as provided by the CoNLL Shared Task. For training, we use the training sets which were denoted as big treebanks 2 . We followed the same methodology used in the CoNLL Shared Task. We use the training treebank for training only and the development sets for hyperparameter tuning and early stopping. To keep our results comparable with the Shared Task, we use the provided precomputed word embeddings. We excluded Gothic from our experiments as the available downloadable content did not include embeddings for this language.
As input to our system-for both part-ofspeech tagging and morphological tagging-we use the output of the UDPipe-base baseline system) which provides segmentation. The segmentation differs from the gold segmentation and impacts accuracy negatively fora number of languages. Most of the top performing systems for part-of-speech tagging used as input UDPipe to obtain the segmentation for the input data. For morphology, the top system for most languages (IMS) used its own segmentation. For the evaluation, we used the official evaluation script ().
section: Part-of-Speech Tagging Results
In this section, we present the results of the application of our model to part-of-speech tagging. In our first experiment, we used our model in the setting of the CoNLL 2017 Shared Task to annotate words with XPOS 3 tags (. We compare our results against the top systems of the CoNLL 2017 Shared Task. contains the results of this task for the large treebanks.
Because won the challenge for the majority of the languages, we first compare our results with the performance of their system. Our model outperforms in 32 of the 54 treebanks with 13 ties. These ties correspond mostly to languages where XPOS tagging anyhow obtains accuracies above 99%. Our model tends to produce better results, especially for morphologically rich languages (e.g. Slavic
section: System
Accuracy Søgaard 97.50 97.64. 97.41 ours 97.96: Results on WSJ test set. languages), whereas showed higher performance in 10 languages in particular English, Greek, Brazilian Portuguese and Estonian.
section: Part-of-Speech Tagging on WSJ
We also performed experiments on the Penn Treebank with the usual split in train, development and test set. shows the results of our model in comparison to the results reported in state-ofthe-art literature. Our model significantly outperforms these systems, with an absolute difference of 0.32% inaccuracy, which corresponds to a RRIE of 12%.
section: Morphological Tagging Results
In addition to the XPOS tagging experiments, we performed experiments with morphological tagging. This annotation was part of the CONLL 2017 Shared Task and the objective was to predict a bundle of morphological features for each token in the text. Our model treats the morphological bundle as one tag making the problem equivalent to a sequential tagging problem. shows the results. Our models tend to produce significantly better results than the winners of the CoNLL 2017 Shared Task (i.e., 1.8% absolute improvement on average, corresponding to a RRIE of 21.20%). The only cases for which this is not true are again languages that require significant segmentation efforts (i.e., Hebrew, Chinese, Vietnamese and Japanese) or when the task was trivial.
Given the fact that obtained the best results in part-of-speech tagging by a significant margin in the CoNLL 2017 Shared Task, it would be expected that their model would also perform significantly well in morphological tagging since the tasks are very similar. Since they did not participate in this particular challenge, we decided to reimplement their system to serve: Results for morphological features. The column CoNLL Winner shows the top system of the ST 17, the DQM Reimpl. shows our reimplementation of, the column ours shows our system with a sentence-based character model; RRIE gives the relative reduction in error between the Reimpl. DQM and sentencebased character system. Our system outperforms the CoNLL Winner by 48 out of 54 treebanks and the reimplementation of DQM, by 43 of 54 treebanks, with 6 ties.
as a strong baseline. As expected, our reimplementation of tends to significantly outperform the winners of the CONLL 2017 Shared Task. However, in general, our models still obtain better results, outperforming Dozat et al. on 43 of the 54 treebanks, with an absolute difference of 0.42% on average.
section: Ablation Study
The model proposed in this paper of a MetaBiLSTM with a sentence-based character model differs from prior work in multiple aspects. In this section, we perform ablations to determine the relative impact of each modeling decision.
For the experimental setup of the ablation experiments, we report accuracy scores for the development sets. We split off 5% of the sentences from each training corpus and we use this part for early stopping. Ablation experiments are either performed on a few selected treebanks to show individual language results or averaged across all treebanks for which tagging is non-trivial.
Impact of the Training Schema We first compare jointly training the three model components (Meta-BiLSTM, character model, word model) to training each separately. shows that separately optimized models are significantly more accurate on average than jointly optimized models. Separate optimization leads to better accuracy for 34 out of 40 treebanks for the morphological features task and for 30 out of 39 treebanks for xpos tagging. Separate optimization outperformed joint optimization by up to 2.1 percent absolute, while joint never out-performed separate by more than 0.5% absolute. We hypothesize that separately training the models forces each submodel (word and character) to be strong enough to make high accuracy predictions and in some sense serves as a regularizer in the same way that dropout does for individual neurons.
optimization.
section: Impact of the Sentence-based Character Model
We compared the setup with sentence-based character context) to word-based character context (. We selected for these experiments a number of morphological rich languages.
The results are shown in. The accuracy of the word-based character model joint with a word-based model were significantly lower than a sentence-based character model. We conclude: F1 score for selected languages on sentence vs. word level character models for the prediction of morphology using late integration.
also from these results and comparing with results of the reimplementation of DQM that early integration of the word-based character model performs much better as late integration via MetaBiLSTM fora word-based character model.
Impact of the Meta-BiLSTM Model Combination The proposed model trains word and character models independently while training a joint model on top. Here we investigate the part-ofspeech tagging performance of the joint model compared with the word and character models on their own (using hyperparameters from in 4.1). shows, for selected languages, the results averaged over 10 runs in order to measure standard deviation. The examples show that the combined model has significantly higher accuracy compared with either the character and word models individually.
Concatenation Strategies for the ContextSensitive Character Encodings The proposed model bases a token encoding on both the forward and the backward character representations of both the first and last character in the token (see Equation 1). reports, fora few morphological rich languages, the part-of-speech tagging performance of different strategies to gather the characters when creating initial word encodings. The strategies were defined in §3.1. The   reimplementation of. We removed, for all systems, the word model in order to assess each strategy in isolation. The performance is quite different per language. E.g., for Latin, the outputs of the forward and backward LSTMs of the last character scored highest.
Sensitivity to Hyperparameter Search We picked Vietnamese fora more in-depth analysis since it did not perform well and investigated the influence of the sizes of LSTMs for the word and character model on the accuracy of development set. With larger network sizes, the capacity of the network increases, however, on the other hand it is prune to overfitting. We fixed all the hyperparameters except those for the network size of the character model and the word model, and ran a grid search over dimension sizes from 200 to 500 in steps of 50. The surface plot in 3 shows that the grid peaks with more moderate settings around 350 LSTM cells which might lead to a higher accuracy. For all of the network sizes in the grid search, we still observed during training that the accuracy reach a high value and degrades with more iterations for the character and word model. This suggests that future variants of this model might benefit from higher regularization.
Discussion Generally, the fact that different techniques for creating word encodings from character encodings and different network sizes can lead to different accuracies per language suggests that it should be possible to increase the accuracy of our model on a per language basis via a grid search overall possibilities. In fact, there are many variations on the models we presented in this work (e.g., how the character and word models are combined with the meta-BiLSTM). Since we are using separate losses, we could also change our training schema. For example, one could use methods like stack-propagation ( where we burn-in the character and word models and then train the meta-BiLSTM backpropagating throughout the entire network.
section: Conclusions
We presented an approach to morphosyntactic tagging that combines context-sensitive initial character and word encodings with a meta-BiLSTM layer to obtain state-of-the art accuracies fora wide variety of languages.
