section: title
CATENA: CAusal and TEmporal relation extraction from NAtural language texts
section: abstract
We present CATENA, a sieve-based system to perform temporal and causal relation extraction and classification from English texts, exploiting the interaction between the temporal and the causal model. We evaluate the performance of each sieve, showing that the rule-based, the machine-learned and the reasoning components all contribute to achieving state-of-the-art performance on TempEval-3 and TimeBank-Dense data. Although causal relations are much sparser than temporal ones, the architecture and the selected features are mostly suitable to serve both tasks. The effects of the interaction between the temporal and the causal components, although limited, yield promising results and confirm the tight connection between the temporal and the causal dimension of texts.
section: System architecture
The CATENA system includes two main classification modules, one for temporal and the other for causal relations between events. As shown in, they both take as input a document annotated with the so-called temporal entities according to TimeML guidelines (, including the document creation time (DCT), events and time expressions (timexes). The output is the same document with temporal links (TLINKs) set between pairs of temporal entities, each assigned to one of the TimeML temporal relation types, such as BEFORE, INCLUDES or SIMULTANEOUS, which denotes the temporal ordering. The document is also annotated with causal relations (CLINKs) between event pairs. The modules for temporal and causal relation classification rely both on a sieve-based architecture, in which the remaining unlabelled pairs -after running a rule-based component and/or a transitive reasonerare fed into a supervised classifier. Although some steps can be run in parallel, the two modules interact, based on the assumption that the notion of causality is tightly connected with the temporal dimension and that information from one module can be used to improve or check the consistency of the other. In particular, (i) TLINK labels for event-event (E-E) pairs, resulting from the rule-based sieve + temporal reasoner modules, are used as features for the CLINK classifier; and (ii) CLINK labels (i.e. CLINK and CLINK-R) are used as a post-editing method for correcting the wrong labelled event pairs by the TLINK classifier. This step relies on a set of rules based on the temporal constraint of causality, i.e. (i) CLINK(e 1 , e 2 ) → BEFORE(e 1 , e 2 ) and (ii) CLINK-R(e 1 , e 2 ) → AFTER(e 1 , e 2 ). The modules for temporal and causal relation extraction are detailed in Section 4 and 5 respectively.
section: Temporal Relation Extraction System
The module for the extraction of temporal relations contains two main components, one for (i) temporal relation identification, which is based on a set of rules, and the other for (ii) temporal relation type classification, which is a combination of rule-based and supervised classification modules, with a temporal reasoning component in between. The three steps for temporal relation type classification are ordered based on their individual precisions. This mechanism allows the system to first label few links with high precision using rules, then to infer new links through the reasoner, and finally to increase recall through supervised classification, based on the output of the previous steps.
section: Temporal Relation Identification
All pairs of temporal entities satisfying one of the following rules, inspired by the TempEval-3 task description, are considered as having temporal links (TLINKs): (i) two main events of consecutive sentences, (ii) two events in the same sentence, (iii) an event and a timex in the same sentence, (iv) an event and a document creation time and (v) pairs of all possible timexes (including document creation time) linked with each other. 2 These pairs are then grouped together into four different groups: timex-timex (T-T), event-DCT (E-D), event-timex (E-T) and event-event (E-E).
section: Temporal Relation Type Classification
Our sieve-based architecture is inspired by CAEVO (), although we significantly reduce the system complexity as follows:
• We merge all rule-based classifiers into one sieve component (rule-based sieve), and all Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifiers in the machine-learned sieve.
• Instead of running transitive inference after each classifier, we run our temporal reasoner module on the output of the rule-based sieve, only once.
Furthermore, we use the output of the rule-based sieve (Section 4.2.1) as features for the machinelearned sieve (Section 4.2.3), specifically: (i) the timex-DCT link label proposed by the timex-timex rules are used as a feature in the event-timex SVM, and (ii) the event-DCT link label proposed by the event-DCT rules are used as a feature in the event-event SVM.
section: Temporal Rule-Based Sieve
The temporal rule-based sieve relies on specific hand-crafted rules designed for each type of temporal entity pairs, and takes as input the entity pairs identified in the previous step.
Timex-timex Rules For timex-timex relations, we take into account temporal expressions of types DATE and TIME, and determine the relation types based on their normalized values. For example, "7 PM tonight" (2015-12-12T19:00) IS INCLUDED in "today".
Event-DCT Rules The rules for labelling E-D pairs are based on the tense and/or aspect of the event word. For example, for the event mention "(had) fallen", which is in the past tense with perfective aspect, its relation with the DCT is labelled as BEFORE.
Event-timex Rules As for E-T pairs, we build a set of rules based on the temporal senses of some prepositions (. In particular we assign a label whenever a temporal preposition establishes a dependency path between an event (E) and a timex (T), in which T acts as the temporal modifier of E. For example, if T is introduced by a temporal prepositions expressing a STARTTIME sense such as from or since, the relation is labelled as BEGUN In the absence of a temporal preposition, T might simply be a temporal modifier of E, as exemplified in "Police ET that the body was found...". In this case, we assume that the E-T label is IS INCLUDED. Moreover, sometimes events are modified by temporal expressions marking the starting time and ending time in a duration pattern such as 'between TBEGIN and TEND' or 'from TBEGIN to/until TEND'. We define additional rules as follows: (i) If T matches TBEGIN then E-T label is BEGUN BY, and (ii) if T matches TEND then E-T label is ENDED BY.
Event-event Rules E-E pairs are finally labelled following two sets of rules. The first set is based on the dependency path possibly existing between the first (e 1 ) and the second event (e 2 ), and the verb information encoded in e 1 . For example, if e 2 is the logical subject of e 1 as in "...the chain reaction e 1 off by the [collapse] e 2 of Lehman Brothers", e 1 and e 2 are connected by an AFTER relation. The other set of rules is taken from CAEVO, including: (i) rules for linking a reporting event and another event syntactically dominated by the first, based on tense and aspect; and (ii) rules based on the role played by various tenses of English verbs in conveying temporal discourse.
Further details on the implemented rules for the temporal rule-based sieve can be found in Appendix A.
section: Temporal Reasoner
Based on the output of the previous sieve, we run a transitive reasoner layer, similar to CAEVO, in order to infer new temporal links among candidate pairs. This alleviates the issue of high precision and low recall, typical of the rule-based sieve.
An annotated TimeML document can be mapped into a constraint problem according to how TLINKs are mapped into Allen relations. We apply the following mapping:
• < and > for  Once the documents are mapped into constraint problems, they are then processed by an automated temporal reasoner for computing their deductive closure, globally reasoning on them. We rely on the Generic Qualitative Reasoner (GQR) (), a fast solver for generic qualitative constraint problems, such as Allen constraint problems. The rationale of preferring GQR to other solutions, such as fast Boolean Satisfiability Problem (SAT) solvers, is due to its scalability, simplicity of use and efficient performances).
section: Temporal Supervised Classifiers
We build three supervised classification models, one for event-DCT (E-D), one for event-timex (E-T) and one for event-event (E-E) pairs. We use LIBLINEAR) L2-loss linear SVM (default parameters), and one-vs-rest strategy for multi-class classification.
Tools and Resources Several external tools and resources are used to extract features from each temporal entity pair, including:
• MorphoPro (, to get PoS tags and phrase chunk for each token.
• Mate tools) to extract the dependency path between words.
• WordNet similarity module 4 to compute semantic similarity) between words.
• Temporal signal lists from Mirza and Tonelli (2014b), further expanded using the Paraphrase Database (, and manually clustered e.g. {before, prior to, in advance of }.
Feature Set We implemented a set of features, listed in, largely inspired by the best performing systems in TempEval-2 (Verhagen et al., 2010) and TempEval-3 (UzZaman et al., 2013) campaigns. We simplified the possible values of some features as follows:
section: Rep. Description E-D E-T E-E E-E Morphosyntactic information
PoS xx xx one-hot Part-of-speech tags of e1 and e2. phraseChunk xx xx one-hot Shallow phrase chunk of e1 and e2. samePoS xx x binary Whether e1 and e2 have the same PoS. Textual context entityOrder x binary Appearance order of e1 and e2 in the text. 5 sentenceDistance xx x binary 0 if e1 and e2 are in the same sentence, 1 otherwise. entityDistance xx x binary 0 if e1 and e2 are adjacent, 1 otherwise.: Feature sets for TLINK classification of event-DCT (E-D), event-timex (E-T) and event-event (E-E) pairs, and for CLINK classifier (E-E pairs), with corresponding feature representation (Rep).
• dependencyPath We only consider a dependency path between an event pair if it describes coordination, subordination, subject or object relation.
• signalTokens Given a temporal signal, we do not include in the feature set the token but the clusterID of the cluster containing synonymous signals, e.g. {before, prior to, in advance of }.
• wnSim The value of WordNet similarity measure is discretized as follows: sim ≤ 0.0, 0.0 < sim ≤ 0.5, 0.5 < sim ≤ 1.0 and sim > 1.0.
We exclude lexical features such as token/lemma of temporal entities from the feature set in order to increase the classifiers' robustness in dealing with completely new texts with different vocabularies. Instead, we include WordNet similarity in the feature set to capture the semantic relations between event words.
Label Simplification For training the classification models, we only consider 10 out of the 14 relation types defined in TimeML by collapsing some types, i.e., IBEFORE into BEFORE, IAFTER into AFTER, DURING and DURING INV into SIMULTANEOUS, due to the sparse annotation of such labels in the datasets.
section: Causal Relation Extraction System
We propose the same hybrid approach combining rule-based and supervised classifiers for the identification of causal relations. However, while temporal order has a clear formalization in the NLP community, capturing causal relationships in natural language text is more challenging, for they can be expressed by different syntactic and semantic features and involve both situation-specific information and world knowledge. We adopt the notion of causality proposed in the annotation guidelines of the CausalTimeBank (, which accounts for CAUSE, ENABLE and PREVENT phenomena) that are overtly expressed in text. In particular, we aim at assigning a causal link to pairs of events when: (i) the causal relation is expressed by affect, link and causative verbs (CAUSE-, ENABLE-and PREVENT-type verbs), hereinafter simply addressed as causal verbs; or (ii) the causal relation is marked by a causal signal (see e.g. footnote 6). The two cases require different algorithms: while causal constructions containing causal verbs are quite straightforward to identify, causal signals are very ambiguous and can appear in different syntactic constructions. Therefore, we tackle the first through a rule-based approach, while the second is best covered via supervision, taking advantage of the freely available Causal-TimeBank.
section: Causal Relation Identification
Similar to the temporal processing module, the first step towards causal relation classification is the identification of candidate event pairs. Given a document already annotated with events, we take into account every possible combination of events in a sentence in a forward manner as candidate event pairs. For example, if we have a sentence "e 1 , triggered bye 2 , cause them toe 3 ," the candidate event pairs are (e 1 ,e 2 ), (e 1 ,e 3 ) and (e 2 ,e 3 ). We also include as candidate event pairs the combination of each event in a sentence with events in the following one, to account for inter-sentential causality, under the simplifying assumption that causality maybe expressed also between events in two consecutive sentences.
section: Causal Rule-Based Sieve
In the rule-based sieve, we classify causal constructions containing causal verbs. These show strong regularities: given a causal verb v, the first event e 1 is usually the subject of v and the second event e 2 is either the objector the predicative complement of v. Such relations between events and causal verbs are usually syntactically expressed, therefore our rules aim at identifying pairs of events being related to a causal verb in a causal construction by looking at their dependency paths.
We take the list of 56 affect, link and causative verbs presented in as the causal verb list. We further expand the list using the Paraphrase Database () and original verbs as seeds, resulting in a total of 97 verbs. We then manually cluster the causal verbs sharing the same syntactic behaviour in groups and define a set of rules for each verb group, taking into account the possible existing dependency paths between v and e 1 /e 2 , as well as the causal direction sense 7 conveyed in v. Further details on the implemented rules for the causal rule-based sieve can be found in Appendix B.
section: Causal Supervised Classifier
In order to recognize and determine the causal direction of CLINKs that are signalled by a causal signal, we adopt a supervised approach. We build a classification model using LIBLINEAR) L2-loss linear SVM (default parameters), and one-vs-rest strategy for multi-class classification. The classifier has to label an event pair (e 1 , e 2 ) with CLINK, CLINK-R or O for others.
We take as candidate event pairs only those in which the causal signal is connected via dependency path to either e 1 ore 2 , or both. Besides, we exclude event pairs where the two events are directly connected through relations such as subject, object, coordinating or locative adverbial, because a causal relation usually does not hold in these cases.
section: Tools and Resources
The same external tools and resources mentioned in Section 4.2.3 for building the temporal classifiers are used to extract features from each event pair. Additionally, we take the list of causal signals from the annotation guidelines presented in as the causal signal list. Again we expand the list using the Paraphrase Database (, resulting in a total of 200 signals. We also manually cluster some signals together, e.g. {therefore, thereby, hence, consequently}, as we did for temporal signals.
Feature Set The implemented features are listed in. As shown in, the event-event labels added by the rule-based sieve and the reasoner in the temporal relation extraction module are also used as features for the CLINK classifier.
section: Evaluation
The purpose of the evaluation is two-fold: (i) to evaluate the quality of extracted temporal and causal links separately; and (ii) to investigate the interaction between temporal and causal relation extraction systems in the integrated architecture.
section: Temporal and Causal Relation evaluation
We perform two evaluations, one following TempEval-3 and the other TimeBank-Dense evaluation methodology.
Dataset For the evaluation of the temporal relation extraction module following TempEval-3, we use the same training and test data released for the shared task, 8 i.e. TBAQ-cleaned (cleaned and improved version of the TimeBank 1.2 and the AQUAINT corpora) and TempEval-3-platinum, respectively. The TimeBank 1.2 corpus contains 183 documents coming from a variety of news report, specifically from the ACE program and PropBank, while the AQUAINT corpus contains 73 news report documents and often referred to as the Opinion corpus. The TempEval-3-platinum corpus, containing 20 news articles, was annotated/reviewed by the TempEval-3 organizers.
The TimeBank-Dense corpus () is created to address the sparsity issue in the existing TimeML corpora. The resulting corpus contains 12,715 temporal relations over 36 documents taken from TimeBank 1.2. For the TimeBank-Dense evaluation, we follow the experimental setup in, in which the TimeBank-Dense corpus is split into a 22 document training set, a 5 document development set and a 9 document test set. To evaluate the causal relation extraction module, we use the Causal-TimeBank corpus 10 (Mirza and Tonelli, 2014a) for training. For TimeBank-Dense evaluation, the test set is a subset of TimeBank, so we exclude the 9 test documents from Causal-TimeBank during training. For TempEval-3 evaluation, we manually annotated 20 TempEval-3-platinum documents with causal links following the annotation guidelines of the Causal-TimeBank. 11 Causal relations are much sparser than temporal ones, and we found only 26 CLINKs.
Label Adjustment Since the set of TLINK types used in the TimeBank-Dense corpus is slightly different from the one used in TempEval-3, we map the relation types of TLINKs labelled by the rule-based sieve of CATENA (Section 4.2.1) as follows: (i) BEGINS, ENDED BY → BEFORE, (ii) BEGUN BY, ENDS → AFTER, and (iii) DURING, IDENTITY → SIMULTANEOUS. The set of labels for the TLINK classifiers (Section 4.2.3) is also adjusted accordingly following the labels in the TimeBank-Dense training data., we compare the performance of CATENA with the two best-performing systems participating in the Task C of TempEval-3 (relation annotation given gold entities) and Task C 'relation type only' (relation annotation given gold entities and related pairs). We also compare the results on the second task with the results of, who recently presented a state-of-the-art system for relation classification based on timegraphs and stacked learning. In CATENA, Task C 'relation type only' is performed by disabling the module for identifying temporal links described in Section 4.1.
section: Evaluation Results In
The evaluation shows that CATENA is the best performing system in both tasks, even if in Task C best precision and best recall are yielded by and, respectively. The recall drop (from .613 to .595) in Task C is because we remove the timex-timex pairs from the final TimeBank-Dense Task C Task C rel. type only T . . . .565 ---.576 .579 .578: Analysis of classifier performance per sieve. RB: rule-based sieve, ML: machine-learned sieve and TR: temporal reasoner.
section: -T E-D E-T E-E Overall
annotated documents in order to avoid a relevant decrease in precision, since only very few of such pairs are annotated in the gold standard. The significant drop in precision shows the difficulty in matching annotators' decision to set TLINKs between entity pairs, although CATENA implements the instructions they had to follow in the annotation guidelines. We also report in the performance of CATENA in the TimeBank-Dense evaluation and compare it with CAEVO. We report only F1-score, since all possible links are labelled, yielding the same P and R values. We achieve a small improvement in the overall F1-score, i.e., .511 vs .507. If we consider the different entity pairs, CATENA performs best on timex-timex and event-timex relations, while CAEVO still achieves the best results on event-DCT and event-event pairs. One of the possible reasons for that is the lack of rules in CATENA to classify VAGUE TLINKs between E-E pairs, a relation type present only in TimeBank-Dense.
In order to measure the contribution of each component to the overall performance of CATENA, we also evaluate the performance of each sieve both in the temporal and in the causal module. Results are reported in, evaluated on both TempEval-3 and TimeBank-Dense test data. As expected, running a transitive closure module after the temporal rule-based sieve (RB + TR) results in improving recall, but the overall performance is still lacking (less than .30 F1-score).
Combining rule-based and machine-learned sieves (RB + ML) yields a slight improvement compared with enabling only the machine-learned sieve in the system (ML). Introducing the temporal reasoner module between the two sieves (RB + TR + ML) proves to be even more beneficial. This is especially evident in the TimeBank-Dense evaluation. The same phenomena are also observed by CAEVO; (right) shows the related numbers reported in. Note that in CAEVO, the machinelearned sieves are not the last sieves, instead, the AllVague sieve is finally activated to label all remaining unlabelled pairs as VAGUE.
For causal relation extraction, the combination of rule-based and machine-learned sieves (RB + ML) achieves .622 F1-score in TempEval-3 evaluation, with the ML component contributing to increase: Examples of E-E pairs in the TempEval-3-platinum dataset with gold annotated labels (TE3-gold), labelled by the temporal module (TE-label) and causal module (CA-label) of CATENA. These examples illustrate how TLINK post-editing using CLINK could improve the labelling quality.
the recall of the highly precise RB component. The low precision of the ML module is mostly due to dependency parsing mistakes and issues in disambiguating signals such as from, as in "...passenger cars in China was on track to hit [400 million] T by 2030, up from [90 million] S now." Unfortunately, from the total of 5 gold CLINKs in the 20 documents of the TimeBank-Dense test set, none is identified by CATENA.
section: Interaction between Temporal and Causal Relations
As shown in, E-E labels returned by the temporal reasoner are used by the CLINK classifier as features, whose causal relations are then used to post-edit TLINK labels. We evaluate the impact of the first step through an ablation test, by removing TLINK types from the features used by the CLINK classifier. We only analyse the results of TempEval-3 evaluation, since there are no causal links recognized in the TimeBank-Dense test corpus. Without TLINK types, the F1-score drops from .622 to .571, with a significant recall drop from .538 to .462. This shows that temporal information is beneficial to the classification of causal relations between events, especially in terms of recall.
As for the evaluation of TLINK post-editing using CLINKs, the system identifies 19 causal links in the test set, which are passed to the temporal module. While 15 of them are already consistent with BEFORE/AFTER labels, 3 would add new correct TLINKs that are currently not annotated in the evaluation corpus, and were wrongly labelled by the temporal module of CATENA, as shown in. The fourth would add a BEFORE relation between cloaked and coughing in "A haze akin to volcanic fumes [cloaked] S the capital, causing convulsive [coughing] T ...". This relation is labelled as INCLUDES in the gold standard, but we believe that BEFORE would be correct as well.
section: Conclusions
We presented CATENA, a hybrid system for the extraction and classification of temporal and causal relations in text, which we make freely available to the research community. We adopt a sieve-based architecture both for the temporal and the causal module, integrating rule-based and machine learning components. The two modules were evaluated separately, showing that they achieve state-of-the-art performance on different tasks. Furthermore, the interaction between temporal and causal components, especially the benefits of passing information from one module to the other, was also analysed.
The system relies on the notion of events as defined in the TimeML standard, making it possible to easily put temporal and causal information in relation. Although the interplay between causality and temporality may seem obvious from a theoretical point of view, CATENA allows a systematic study and a quantification of this phenomenon. The presented approach would probably have more impact if implicit causality was also considered, which we did not take into account because it is not annotated in the Causal-TimeBank corpus. However, we plan to investigate this issue in the near future.: E-E label rules based on dependency path (dep) and verb information of e 1 (e 1 verb info).: Causal verb rules for E-E pairs based on causal verb (v) category, dependency paths between v and e 1 /e 2 , and causal direction sense (dir). (*) denotes all possible dependency paths listed in.
section: Appendix A Temporal Rule Set
section: Appendix B Causal Rule Set
section: Relation
