section: title
Supervised Distributional Hypernym Discovery via Domain Adaptation
section: abstract
Lexical taxonomies are graph-like hierarchical structures that provide a formal representation of knowledge. Most knowledge graphs to date rely on is-a (hypernymic) relations as the backbone of their semantic structure. In this paper, we propose a supervised distributional framework for hypernym discovery which operates at the sense level, enabling large-scale automatic acquisition of disambiguated tax-onomies. By exploiting semantic regularities between hyponyms and hypernyms in embed-dings spaces, and integrating a domain clustering algorithm, our model becomes sensitive to the target data. We evaluate several configurations of our approach, training with information derived from a manually created knowledge base, along with hypernymic relations obtained from Open Information Extraction systems. The integration of both sources of knowledge yields the best overall results according to both automatic and manual evaluation on ten different domains.
section: Introduction
Lexical taxonomies (taxonomies henceforth) are graph-like hierarchical structures where terms are nodes, and are typically organized over a predefined merging or splitting criterion (. By embedding cues about how we perceive concepts, and how these concepts generalize in a domain of knowledge, these resources bear a capacity for generalization that lies at the core of human cognition ( and have become key in Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks where inference and reasoning have proved to be essential. In fact, taxonomies have enabled a remarkable number of novel NLP techniques, e.g. the contribution of WordNet to lexical semantics) as well as various tasks, from word sense disambiguation () to information retrieval), question answering () and textual entailment (). To date, the application of taxonomies in NLP has consisted mainly of, on one hand, formally representing a domain of knowledge (e.g. Food), and, on the other hand, constituting the semantic backbone of large-scale knowledge repositories such as ontologies or Knowledge Bases (KBs).
In domain knowledge formalization, prominent work has made use of the web (, lexico-syntactic patterns), syntactic evidence (Luu), graph-based algorithms) or popularity of web sources. As for enabling large-scale knowledge repositories, this task often tackles the additional problem of disambiguating word senses and entity mentions. Notable approaches of this kind include,, and the Wikipedia Bitaxonomy (). In addition, while not being taxonomy learning systems per se, semi-supervised systems for Information Extraction such as NELL () rely crucially on taxonomized concepts and their relations within their learning process.
Taxonomy learning is roughly based on a twostep process, namely is-a (hypernymic) relation de-tection, and graph induction. The hypernym detection phase has gathered much interest not only for taxonomy learning but also for lexical semantics. It has been addressed by means of pattern-based methods 1, clustering ( and graph-based approaches (. Moreover, work stemming from distributional semantics introduced notions of linguistic regularities found in vector representations such as word embeddings). In this area, supervised approaches, arguably the most popular nowadays, learn a feature vector between term-hypernym vector pairs and train classifiers to predict hypernymic relations. These pairs maybe represented either as a concatenation of both vectors (), difference), dot-product (), or including additional linguistic information for LSTMbased learning.
In this paper we propose TAXOEMBED 2 , a hypernym detection algorithm based on sense embeddings, which can be easily applied to the construction of lexical taxonomies. It is designed to discover hypernymic relations by exploiting linear transformations in embedding spaces () and, unlike previous approaches, leverages this intuition to learn a specific semanticallyaware transformation matrix for each domain of knowledge. Our best configuration (ranking first in two thirds of the experiments conducted) considers two training sources: (1) Manually curated pairs from Wikidata; and (2) Hypernymy relations from a KB which integrates several Open Information Extraction (OIE) systems). Since our method uses a very large semantic network as reference sense inventory, we are able to perform jointly hypernym extraction and disambiguation, from which The terminology is not entirely unified in this respect. In addition to pattern-based), other terms like path-based or rule-based) are also used.
2 Data and source code available from the following link: www.taln.upf.edu/taxoembed. expanding existing ontologies becomes a trivial task. Compared to word-level taxonomy learning, TAXO-EMBED results in more refined and unambiguous hypernymic relations at the sense level, with a direct application in tasks such as semantic search. Evaluation (both manual and automatic) shows that we can effectively replicate the Wikidata is-a branch, and capture previously unseen relations in other reference taxonomies (YAGO or WIBI).
section: Related Work
Pattern-based methods for hypernym identification exploit the joint co-ocurrence of term and hypernym in text corpora. Building upon Hearst's patterns, these approaches have focused on, for instance, exploiting templates for harvesting candidate instances which are ranked via mutual information (), training a classifier with WordNet hypernymic relations combined with syntactic dependencies (), or applying a doubly-anchored method, which queries the web with two semantically related terms for collecting domainspecific corpora. Syntactic information is also used for supervised definition and hypernym extraction, or together with Wikipedia-specific heuristics (). One of the main drawbacks of these methods is that they require both term and hypernym to co-occur in text within a certain window, which strongly hinders their recall. Higher recall can be achieved thanks to distributional methods, as they do not have co-occurrence requirements. In addition, they can be tailored to cover any number of predefined semantic relations such as cohyponymy or meronymy (), but also cause-effect or entity-origin (). However, they are often more imprecise and seem to perform best in discovering broader semantic relations.
One way to surmount the issue of generality was proposed by, who explored the possibility to learn a hypernymic transformation matrix over a word embeddings space. As shown empirically in Fu et al.'s original work, the hypernymic relation that holds for the pair (dragonfly, insect) differs from the one of e.g. (carpenter, man). Prior to training, their system addresses this discrepancy via k-means clustering using a held-out development set for tuning.
The previously described methods for hypernym and taxonomy learning operate inherently at the surface level. This is partly due to the way evaluation is conducted, which is often limited to very specific domains with no integrative potential (e.g. taxonomies in food, science or equipment from), or restricted to lists of word pairs. Hence, a drawback of surface-level taxonomy learning, apart from ambiguity issues, is that they require additional and error-prone steps to identify semantic clusters ().
Alternatively, recent advances in OIE based on disambiguation and deeper semantic analysis () have shown their potential to construct taxonomized disambiguated resources both at node and at relation level. However, in addition to their inherently broader scope, OIE approaches are designed to achieve high coverage, and hence they tend to produce noisier data compared to taxonomy learning systems.
In our sense-based approach, instead, not only do we leverage an unambiguous vector representation for hypernym discovery, but we also take advantage of a domain-wise clustering strategy to directly obtain specific term-hypernym training pairs, thereby substantially refining this step. Additionally, we exploit the complementary knowledge of OIE systems by incorporating high-confidence relation triples drawn from OIE-derived resources, yielding the best average configuration as evaluated on ten different domains of knowledge.
section: Preliminaries
TAXOEMBED leverages the vast amounts of training data available from structured and unstructured knowledge resources, along with the mapping among these resources and a state-of-the-art vector representation of word senses.
BabelNet 3 (Navigli and Ponzetto, 2012) constitutes our sense inventory, as it is currently the largest single multilingual repository of named en-3 http://babelnet.org tities and concepts, integrating various resources such as WordNet, Wikipedia or Wikidata. As in WordNet, BabelNet is structured in synsets. Each synset is composed of a set of words (lexicalizations or senses) representing the same meaning. For instance, the synset referring to the members of a business organization is represented by the set of senses firm, house, business firm. BabelNet contains around 14M synsets in total. We exploit BabelNet 4 as (1) A repository for the manually-curated hypernymic relations included in Wikidata; (2) A semantic pivot of the integration of several OIE systems into one single resource, namely KB-UNIFY; and (3) A sense inventory for the SENSEMBED vector representations. In the following we provide further details about each of these resources.
section: Training Data
Wikidata) is a document-oriented semantic database operated by the Wikimedia Foundation with the goal of providing a common source of data that can be used by other Wikimedia projects. Our initial training set W consists of the hypernym branch of Wikidata, specifically the version included in BabelNet. Each term-hypernym ∈ Wis in fact a pair of BabelNet synsets, e.g. the synset for Apple (with the company sense), and the concept company. KB-UNIFY 6 (Delli Bovi et al., 2015a) (KB-U) is a knowledge-based approach, based on BabelNet, for integrating the output of different OIE systems into a single unified and disambiguated knowledge repository. The unification algorithm takes as input a set K of OIE-derived resources, each of which is modeled as a set of entity, relation, entity triples, and comprises two subsequent stages: in the first disambiguation stage, each KB in K is linked to the sense inventory of BabelNet by disambiguating its relation argument pairs; in the following alignment stage, equivalent relations across different KB in K are merged together. As a result, KB-U generates a KB of triples where arguments are linked to the corresponding BabelNet synsets, and relations are replaced by relation synsets of semantically similar OIE-derived relation patterns. The original experimental setup of KB-UNIFY included NELL () as one of its input resources: since NELL features its own manually-built taxonomic structure and relation type inventory (hence its own is-a relation type), we identified the relation synset containing NELL's is-a 7 and then drew from the unified KB all the corresponding triples, which we denote as K. These triples constitute, similarly as in the previous case, a set of term-hypernym pairs automatically extracted from OIE-derived resources, with a disambiguation confidence of above 0.9 according to the disambiguation strategy described in the original paper.
Initially, |W| = 5,301,867 and |K| = 1,358,949.
section: Sense vectors
SENSEMBED ( 8 constitutes the sense embeddings space that we use for training our hypernym detection algorithm. Vectors in the SENSEMBED space, denoted as S, are latent continuous representations of word senses based on the Word2Vec architecture (, which was applied on a disambiguated Wikipedia corpus. Each vector v ∈ S represents a BabelNet sense, i.e. a synset along with one of its lexicalizations (e.g. album_chart_bn:00002488n). This differs from unsupervised approaches () that learn sense representations from text corpora only and are not mapped to any lexical resource, limiting their application in our task.
section: Methodology
Our approach can be summarized as follows. First, we take advantage of a clustering algorithm for allocating each BabelNet synset of the training set into a domain cluster C (Section 4.1). Then, we expand the training set by exploiting the different lexicalizations available for each BabelNet synset (Section 4.2). Finally, we learn a cluster-wise linear projection (a hypernym transformation matrix) overall pairs (term-hypernym) of the expanded training set (Section 4.3). induced semantic clusters via kmeans, where k was tuned on a development set. Instead, we aim at learning a function sensitive to a predefined knowledge domain, under the assumption that vectors clustered with this criterion are likely to exhibit similar semantic properties (e.g. similarity). First, we allocate each synset into its most representative domain, which is achieved by exploiting the set of thirty four domains available in the Wikipedia featured articles page . Warfare, transport, or music are some of these domains. In the Wikipedia featured articles page each domain is composed of 128 Wikipedia pages on average. Then, in order to expand the set of concepts associated with each domain, we leverage NASARI 10), a distributional approach that has been used to construct explicit vector representations of BabelNet synsets.
section: Domain Clustering
Our goal is to associate BabelNet synsets with domains. To this end, we follow Camacho- and build a lexical vector for each Wikipedia domain by concatenating all Wikipedia pages representing the given domain into a single text. Finally, given a BabelNet synset b, we calculate the similarity between its corresponding NASARI lexical vector and all the domain vectors, selecting the domain leading to the highest similarity score:
where Dis the set of all thirty-three domains, dis the vector of the domain d ∈ D, b is the vector of the BabelNet synset b, and WO refers to the Weighted Overlap comparison measure (, which is defined as follows:
where rank w, vi is the rank of the word win the vector vi according to its weight, and O is the set of overlapping words between the two vectors. In order to have a highly reliable set of domain labels, those synsets whose maximum similarity score is below a certain threshold are not annotated with any domain. We fixed the threshold to 0.35, which provided a fine balance between precision (estimated in around 85%) and recall in our development set. By following this approach almost 2 million synsets are labelled with a domain.
section: Training Data Expansion
Prior to training our model, we benefit from the fact that a given BabelNet synset maybe associated with a fixed number of lexicalizations or senses, i.e. different ways of referring to the same concept, to expand our set of training pairs. For instance, the synset b associated with the concept music_album is represented by the set of lexicalizations L b = {album, music_album . . . album_project}. We take advantage of this synset representation to expand each term-hypernym synset pair. For each term-hypernym pair, both concepts are expanded to their given lexicalizations and thus, each synset pair term-hypernym in the training data is expanded to a set of |L t |.|L h | sense training pairs. This expansion step results in much larger sets W * and K * , where |W * | = 18,291,330 and |K * | = 15,362,268. Specifically, they are 3 and 11 times bigger than the original training sets described in Section 3.1. These numbers are higher than those reported in recent approaches for hypernym detection, which exploited Chinese semantic thesauri along with manual validation of hypernym pairs () (obtaining a total of 1,391 instances), or pairs from knowledge resources such as Wikidata, Yago, WordNet and DBpedia (, where the maximum reported split for training data (70%) amounted to 49,475 pairs.
section: Learning a Hypernym Detection Matrix
The gist of our approach lies on the property of current semantic vector space models to capture relations between vectors, in our case hypernymy. This can be found even in disjoint spaces, where this property has been exploited for machine translation (Mikolov et al., 2013b) or language normalization (). For our purposes, however, instead of learning a global linear transformation function in two spaces over abroad relation like hypernymy, we learn a function sensitive to a given domain of knowledge. Thus, our training data becomes restricted to those term-hypernym BabelNet sense pairs
section: where C d is the cluster of BabelNet synsets labelled with the domain d.
For each domain-wise expanded training set T d , we construct a hyponym matrix
, which are composed by the corresponding SENSEMBED vectors of the training pairs
Under the intuition that there exists a matrix Ψ so that yd = Ψ x d , we learn a transformation matrix for each domain cluster Cd by minimizing:
Then, for any unseen term x d , we obtain a ranked list of the most likely hypernyms of its lexicalization vectors
, using as measure cosine similarity:
At this point, we have associated with each sense vector a ranked list of candidate hypernym vectors. However, in the (frequent) cases in which one synset has more than one lexicalization, we need to condense the results into one single list of candidates, which we achieve with a simple ranking function λ(·), which we compute as λ( v) = cos( v,Ψ C x d ) rank( v) , where rank( v) is the rank of v according to its cosine similarity with Ψ C x d .
The above operations allow us to cast the hypernym detection task as a ranking problem. This is also particularly interesting to enable a flexible evaluation framework where we can combine highly demanding metrics for the quality of the candidate given at a certain rank, as well as other measures which consider the rank of the first valid retrieved candidate.
section: Evaluation
The performance of TAXOEMBED is evaluated by conducting several experiments, both automatic and manual. Specifically, we assess its ability to return valid hypernyms fora given unseen term with a held-out evaluation dataset of 250 Wikidata termhypernym pairs (Section 5.1). In addition, we assess the extent to which TAXOEMBED is able to correctly identify hypernyms outside of Wikidata (Section 5.2).
section: Experiment 1: Automatic Evaluation
section: Experimental setting
For each domain, we retain 5k, 10k, 15k, 20k and 25k Wikidata term-hypernym training pairs for different experiments, and evaluate on 250 test pairs for each of the 10 domains. Moreover, we aim at improving TAXOEMBED by including 1k and 25k extra OIE-derived training pairs per domain (generating two more systems, namely 25k+K d 1k and 25k+K d 25k ). These OIE-derived instances are those contained in KB-U (see Section 3.1). Moreover, in order to quantify the empirically grounded intuition of the need to train a cluster-wise transformation matrix (), we also introduce an additional configuration at 25k (25k+K r 50k ), where we include 50k additional pairs randomly from KB-U, and two more settings with only random pairs coming from Wikidata (100k r wd ) and KB-U (100k+ r kbu ). We also include a distributional supervised baseline 11 based on word analogies (), computed as follows. First, we calculate the difference vector of each training SENSEMBED vector pair ( x d , yd ) of a given domain d. Then, we average all the difference vectors of all training pairs to obtain a global vector V d for the domain d. Finally, given a test term t we calculate the closest vector of the sum of the corresponding term vector and V d :
This baseline has shown to capture different semantic relations and to improve as training data increases ().
Evaluation metrics. We computed, for each domain and for the above configurations, the following metrics: Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR), Mean Average Precision (MAP), and R-Precision (R-P). These measures provide insights on different aspects of the outcome of the task, e.g. how often valid hypernyms were retrieved in the first positions of the rank (MRR), and if there were more than one valid hypernym, whether this set was correctly retrieved, (MAP and R-P) .
section: Results and discussion
We summarize the main outcome of our experiments in. Results suggest that the performance of TAXOEMBED increases as training data expands. This is consistent with the findings shown in, who showed a substantial improvement inaccuracy in the machine translation task by gradually increasing the training set. Additionally, the improvement of TAXOEMBED over the baseline is consistent across most evaluation domain clusters and metrics, with domain-filtered data from KB-U contributing to the learning process in about two thirds of the evaluated configurations. These are very encouraging results considering the noisy nature of OIE systems, and that the resource we obtained from KB-U is the result of error-prone steps such as Word Sense Disambiguation and Entity Linking, as well as relation clustering.
As far as the individual domains are concerned, the biology domain seems to be easier to model than the rest, likely due to the fact that fauna and flora are areas where hierarchical division of species is afield of study in itself, which traces back to Aristotelian times, and therefore has been constantly refined over the years. Also, it is notable how well the 100k r wd configuration performs on this domain. This is the only domain in which training with no semantic awareness gives good results. We argue that this is highly likely due to the fact that avast amount of synsets are allocated into the biology cluster (60% of them, and up to 80% in hypernym position). This produces the so-called lexical memorization phenomenon (), as the system memorizes prototypical biology-related hypernyms like taxon as valid hypernyms for many concepts. This contrasts with the lower presence of other domains, e.g. 5% in media, 4% in music, or 2% in transport.
Another remarkable case involves the education and media domains, which experience the highest improvement when training with KB-U (5 and 6 MRR points, respectively). Train MRR MAP R-P MRR MAP R-P MRR MAP R-P MRR MAP R-P MRR MAP R-P 5k 0.12 0.12 0.12 0.63 0.63 0.59 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.07 15k 0.21 0.20 0.18 0.84 0.72 0.79 0.    One of the main sources for is-a relations in KB-U is NELL, which contains avast amount of relation triples between North American academic entities (professors, sports teams, alumni, donators; as well as media celebrities). Many of these entities are missing in Wikidata, and relations among them encoded in NELL are likely to be correct because inmost cases these are unambiguous entities which occur in the same communicative contexts. For example, leveraging KB-U we were able to include the pair (university_of_north_wales, four_year_college), which is absent in Wikidata. In fact, many high quality is-a pairs like this can be found in KB-U for these two domains.
We also computed P@k (number of valid hypernyms on the first k returned candidates), where k ranges from 1 to 5. Numbers are on the line of the results shown in and therefore are not provided in detail. The main trend we found is showcased in, which shows an illustrative example from the transport domain. As we can see, all values of k exhibit a similar performance curve, with a gradual increase of performance as the training set becomes larger. False positives. We complement this experiment with a manual evaluation of theoretical false positives. Our intuition is that due to the nature of the task, some domains maybe more flexible in allow-ing two terms to encode an is-a relation, while others maybe more restrictive. We asked human judges to manually validate a sample of 200 wrong pairs from our best run in each domain, and estimated precision over them. As expected, hard science domains like physics obtain very low results (about 1% precision). In contrast, other domains like education (12% precision), or transport (16% precision), probably due to their multidisciplinary nature, allow more valid hypernyms fora given term than what is currently encoded in Wikidata.
section: Experiment 2: Extra-Coverage
In this experiment we evaluate the performance of TAXOEMBED on instances not included in Wikidata. We describe the experimental setting in Section 5.2.1 and present the results in Section 5.2.2.
section: Experimental setting
For this experiment we use two configurations of TAXOEMBED: the first one includes 25k domainwise expanded training pairs (TaxE 25k ), whereas the second one adds 1k pairs from KB-U (TaxE 25k+K d ). We randomly extract 200 test BabelNet synsets (20 per domain) whose hypernyms are missing in Wikidata. We compare against a number of taxonomy learning and Information Extraction systems, namely,) and DefIE). Yago and WiBi are used as upper bounds due to the nature of their hypernymic relations. They include a great number of manually-encoded taxonomies (e.g. exploiting WordNet and Wikipedia categories). Yago derives its taxonomic relations from an automatic mapping between WordNet and Wikipedia categories. WiBi, on the other hand, exploits, among a number of different Wikipedia-specific heuristics, categories and the syntactic structure of the introductory sentence of Wikipedia pages. Finally, DefIE is an automaic OIE system relying on the syntactic structure of pre-disambiguated definitions . Three annotators manually evaluated the validity of the hypernyms extracted by each system (one per test instance). shows the results of TAXOEMBED and all comparison systems. As expected, Yago and WiBi achieve the best overall results. However, TAXOEM-BED, based solely on distributional information, performed competitively in detecting new hypernyms when compared to DefIE, improving its recall inmost domains, and even surpassing Yago in technical areas like biology or health. However, our model does not perform particularly well on media and physics. In most domains our model is able to discover novel hypernym relations that are not captured by any other system (e.g. therapy for radiation treatment planning in the health domain or decoration for molding in the art domain) .
section: Results and discussion
In fact, the overlap between our approach and the remaining systems is actually quite small (on average less than 25% with all of them on the ExtraCoverage experiment). This is mainly due to the fact that TAXOEMBED only exploits distributional information and does not make use of predefined syntactic heuristics, suggesting that the information it provides and the rule-based comparison systems maybe complementary. We foresee a potential avenue focused on combining a supervised distributional approach such as TAXOEMBED with syntacticallymotivated systems such as Wibi or Yago. This combination of a distributional system and manual patterns was already introduced by on the hypernym detection task with highly encouraging results.
section: Conclusion
We have presented TAXOEMBED, a supervised taxonomy learning framework exploiting the property that was observed in, namely that there exists, fora given domain-specific terminology, a shared linear projection among termhypernym pairs. We showed how this can be used to learn a hypernym transformation matrix for discovering novel is-a relations, which are the backbone of lexical taxonomies. First, we allocate almost 2M BabelNet synsets into a predefined domain of knowledge. Then, we collect training data both from a manually constructed knowledge base (Wiki-: Precision, recall and F-Measure between TAXOEMBED, two taxonomy learning systems (Yago and WiBi), and a pattern-based approach that performs hypernym extraction (DefIE). data), and from OIE systems. We substantially expand our initial training set by expanding both terms and hypernyms to all their available senses, and in a last step, to their corresponding disambiguated vector representations. Evaluation shows that the general trend is that our hypernym matrix improves as we increase training data. Our best domain-wise configuration combines 25k training pairs from Wikidata and additional pairs from an OIE-derived KB, achieving promising results. The domains in which the addition of the OIE-based information contributed the most are education, transport and media. For instance, in the case of education, this maybe due to the over representation of the North American educational system in IE systems like NELL. We accompany this quantitative evaluation with manual assessment of precision of false positives, and an analysis of the potential coverage comparing it with knowledge taxonomies like Yago or WiBi, and with DefIE, a quasi-OIE system.
section: Future Work
For future work we are planning to apply this strategy to learn large-scale semantic relations beyond hypernymy. This may constitute a first step towards a global and fully automatic ontology learning system. In the context of semantic web, we would like to include semantic parsers and distant supervision to our algorithm in order to capture n-ary relations between pairs of concepts to further create and improve existing KBs.
As mentioned in Section 5.2.2, we are also planning to combine our distributional approach with rule-based heuristics, following the line of work introduced by. Finally, we see potential in the domain clustering approach for improving graph-based taxonomy learning systems, as it can serve as a weighting measure as to how pertinent a given set of concepts in a taxonomy are fora specific domain.
