section: title
Neural Sequence Learning Models for Word Sense Disambiguation
section: abstract
Word Sense Disambiguation models exist in many flavors. Even though supervised ones tend to perform best in terms of accuracy, they often lose ground to more flexible knowledge-based solutions, which do not require training by a word expert for every disambiguation target. To bridge this gap we adopt a different perspective and rely on sequence learning to frame the disambiguation problem: we propose and study in depth a series of end-to-end neural architectures directly tailored to the task, from bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory to encoder-decoder models. Our extensive evaluation over standard benchmarks and in multiple languages shows that sequence learning enables more versatile all-words models that consistently lead to state-of-the-art results, even against word experts with engineered features.
section: Introduction
As one of the long-standing challenges in Natural Language Processing (NLP), Word Sense Disambiguation, WSD) has received considerable attention over recent years. Indeed, by dealing with lexical ambiguity an effective WSD model brings numerous benefits to a variety of downstream tasks and applications, from Information to Machine Translation. Recently, WSD has also been leveraged to build continuous vector representations for word senses.
Inasmuch as WSD is described as the task of associating words in context with the most suitable entries in a pre-defined sense inventory, the majority of WSD approaches to date can be grouped into two main categories: supervised (or semisupervised) and knowledge-based. Supervised models have been shown to consistently outperform knowledge-based ones in all standard benchmarks (, at the expense, however, of harder training and limited flexibility. First of all, obtaining reliable sense-annotated corpora is highly expensive and especially difficult when non-expert annotators are involved (de, and as a consequence approaches based on unlabeled data and semisupervised learning are emerging.
Apart from the shortage of training data, a crucial limitation of current supervised approaches is that a dedicated classifier (word expert) needs to be trained for every target lemma, making them less flexible and hampering their use within endto-end applications. In contrast, knowledge-based systems do not require sense-annotated data and often draw upon the structural properties of lexicosemantic resources. Such systems construct a model based only on the underlying resource, which is then able to handle multiple target words at the same time and disambiguate them jointly, whereas word experts are forced to treat each disambiguation target in isolation.
In this paper our focus is on supervised WSD, but we depart from previous approaches and adopt a different perspective on the task: instead of framing a separate classification problem for each given word, we aim at modeling the joint disambiguation of the target text as a whole in terms of a sequence labeling problem. From this standpoint, WSD amounts to translating a sequence of words into a sequence of potentially sense-tagged tokens.
With this in mind, we design, analyze and compare experimentally various neural architectures of different complexities, ranging from a single bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (, LSTM) to a sequence-tosequence approach. Each architecture reflects a particular way of modeling the disambiguation problem, but they all share some key features that set them apart from previous supervised approaches to WSD: they are trained end-to-end from sense-annotated text to sense labels, and learn a single all-words model from the training data, without fine tuning or explicit engineering of local features.
The contributions of this paper are twofold. First, we show that neural sequence learning represents a novel and effective alternative to the traditional way of modeling supervised WSD, enabling a single all-words model to compete with a pool of word experts and achieve state-of-the-art results, while also being easier to train, arguably more versatile to use within downstream applications, and directly adaptable to different languages without requiring additional sense-annotated data (as we show in Section 6.2); second, we carryout an extensive experimental evaluation where we compare various neural architectures designed for the task (and somehow left underinvestigated in previous literature), exploring different configurations and training procedures, and analyzing their strengths and weaknesses on all the standard benchmarks for all-words WSD.
section: Related Work
The literature on WSD is broad and comprehensive (: new models are continuously being) and tested over a wide variety of standard benchmarks. Moreover, the field has been explored in depth from different angles by means of extensive empirical studies and evaluation frameworks.
As regards supervised WSD, traditional approaches are generally based on extracting local features from the words surrounding the target, and then training a classifier () for each target lemma. In their latest developments, these models include more complex features based on word embeddings.
The recent upsurge of neural networks has also contributed to fueling WSD research: rely on a powerful neural language model to obtain a latent representation for the whole sentence containing a target word w; their instance-based system then compares that representation with those of example sentences annotated with the candidate meanings of w. Similarly,) makes use of a bidirectional LSTM architecture trained on an unlabeled corpus and learns a context vector for each sense annotation in the training data. Finally, present a supervised classifier based on bidirectional LSTM for the lexical sample task). All these contributions have shown that supervised neural models can achieve state-of-the-art performances without taking advantage of external resources or language-specific features. However, they all consider each target word as a separate classification problem and, to the best of our knowledge, very few attempts have been made to disambiguate a text jointly using sequence learning ().
Sequence learning, especially using LSTM, has become a well-established standard in numerous NLP tasks (. In particular, sequence-to-sequence models) have grown increasingly popular and are used extensively in, e.g., Machine Translation (, Sentence Representation (, Syntactic Parsing ( , Conversation Modeling (, Morphological Inflection ( and Text Summarization (. In line with this trend, we focus on the (so far unexplored) context of supervised WSD, and investigate state-of-the-art all-words approaches that are based on neural sequence learning and capable of disambiguating all target content words within an input text, a key feature in several knowledge-based approaches.
section: Sequence Learning for Word Sense Disambiguation
In this section we define WSD in terms of a sequence learning problem. While in its classical formulation WSD is viewed as a classification problem fora given word win context, with word senses of w being the class labels, here we consider a variable-length sequence of input symbols x = x 1 , ..., x T and we aim at predicting a sequence of output symbols y = y 1 , ..., y T . 1 Input symbols are word tokens drawn from a given vocabulary V . 2 Output symbols are either drawn from a pre-defined sense inventory S (if the corresponding input symbols are open-class content words, i.e., nouns, verbs, adjectives or adverbs), or from the same input vocabulary V (e.g., if the corresponding input symbols are function words, like prepositions or determiners). Hence, we can define a WSD model in terms of a function that maps sequences of symbols xi ∈ V into sequences of symbols y j ∈ O = S ∪ V . Here all-words WSD is no longer broken down into a series of distinct and separate classification tasks (one per target word) but rather treated directly at the sequence level, with a single model handling all disambiguation decisions. In what follows, we describe three different models for accomplishing this: a traditional LSTMbased model (Section 3.1), a variant that incorporates an attention mechanism (Section 3.2), and an encoder-decoder architecture (Section 3.3). In general x and y might have different lengths, e.g., if x contains a multi-word expression (European Union) which is mapped to a unique sense identifier (European Union 1 n ). 2 V generalizes traditional vocabularies used in WSD and includes both word lemmas and inflected forms.
section: Bidirectional LSTM Tagger
The most straightforward way of modeling WSD as formulated in Section 3 is that of considering a sequence labeling architecture that tags each symbol xi ∈ V in the input sequence with a label y j ∈ O. Even though the formulation is rather general, previous contributions ( have already shown the effectiveness of recurrent neural networks for WSD. We follow the same line and employ a bidirectional LSTM architecture: in fact, important clues for disambiguating a target word could be located anywhere in the context (not necessarily before the target) and fora model to be effective it is crucial that it exploits information from the whole input sequence at every time step.
Architecture. A sketch of our bidirectional LSTM tagger is shown in. It consists of:
• An embedding layer that converts each word
• One or more stacked layers of bidirectional LSTM (Graves and). The hidden state vectors hi and output vectors oi at the i th time step are then obtained as the concatenations of the forward and backward pass vectors
• A fully-connected layer with softmax activation that turns the output vector oi at the i th time step into a probability distribution over the output vocabulary O.
Training. The tagger is trained on a dataset of N labeled sequences {( x k , y k )} N k=1 directly obtained from the sentences of a sense-annotated corpus, where each x k is a sequence of word tokens, and each y k is a sequence containing both word tokens and sense labels. Ideally y k is a copy of x k where each content word is sense-tagged. This is, however, not the casein many real-world datasets, where only a subset of the content words is annotated; hence the architecture is designed to deal with both fully and partially annotated sentences. Apart from sentence splitting and tokenization, no preprocessing is required on the training data.
section: Attentive Bidirectional LSTM Tagger
The bidirectional LSTM tagger of Section 3.1 exploits information from the whole input sequence x, which is encoded in the hidden state hi . However, certain elements of x might be more discriminative than others in predicting the output label at a given time step (e.g., the syntactic subject and object when predicting the sense label of a verb).
We model this hunch by introducing an attention mechanism, already proven to be effective in other NLP tasks (, into the sequence labeling architecture of Section 3.1. The resulting attentive bidirectional LSTM tagger augments the original architecture with an attention layer, where a context vector c is computed from all the hidden states h 1 , ..., h T of the bidirectional LSTM. The attentive tagger first reads the entire input sequence x to construct c, and then exploits c to predict the output label y j at each time step, by concatenating it with the output vector o j of the bidirectional LSTM (.
We follow previous work and compute c as the weighted sum of the hidden state vectors h 1 , ..., h T . Formally, let H ∈ Rn × T be the matrix of hidden state vectors [ h 1 , ..., h T ], where n is the hidden state dimension and T is the input sequence length (cf. Section 3). c is obtained as follows:
where ω ∈ Rn is a parameter vector, and a ∈ R T is the vector of normalized attention weights.
section: Sequence-to-Sequence Model
The attentive tagger of Section 3.2 performs a two-pass procedure by first reading the input sequence x to construct the context vector c, and then predicting an output label y j for each element in x. In this respect, the attentive architecture can effectively be viewed as an encoder for x. A further generalization of this model would then be a complete encoder-decoder architecture () where WSD is treated as a sequence-to-sequence mapping (sequence-to-sequence WSD), i.e., as the "translation" of word sequences into sequences of potentially sense-tagged tokens. Figure 2: Attentive bidirectional LSTM sequence labeling architecture for WSD (2 hidden layers).
In the sequence-to-sequence framework, a variable-length sequence of input symbols x is represented as a sequence of vectors x = x 1 , ..., x T by converting each symbol xi ∈ x into a real-valued vector xi via an embedding layer, and then fed to an encoder, which generates a fixed-dimensional vector representation of the sequence. Traditionally, the encoder function is a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) such that:
where ht ∈ Rn is the n-dimensional hidden state vector at time t, c ∈ Rn is a vector generated from the whole sequence of input states, and f and q are non-linear functions. 3 A decoder is then trained to predict the next output symbol y t given the encoded input vector c and all the previously predicted output symbols y 1 , ..., y t−1 . More formally, the decoder defines a probability over the output sequence y = y 1 , ..., y T by decomposing the joint probability into ordered conditionals:
Typically a decoder RNN defines the hidden state at time t ass t = g(s t−1 , {c, y t−1 }) and then feeds st to a softmax layer in order to obtain a conditional probability over output symbols.: Encoder-decoder architecture for sequence-to-sequence WSD, with 2 bidirectional LSTM layers and an attention layer.
In the context of WSD framed as a sequence learning problem, a sequence-to-sequence model takes as input a training set of labeled sequences (cf. Section 3.1) and learns to replicate an input sequence x while replacing each content word with its most suitable word sense from S. In other words, sequence-to-sequence WSD can be viewed as the combination of two sub-tasks:
• A memorization task, where the model learns to replicate the input sequence token by token at decoding time;
• The actual disambiguation task where the model learns to replace content words across the input sequence with their most suitable senses from the sense inventory S.
In the latter stage, multi-word expressions (such as nominal entity mentions or phrasal verbs) are replaced by their sense identifiers, hence yielding an output sequence that might have a different length than x.
Architecture. The encoder-decoder architecture generalizes over both the models in Sections 3.1 and 3.2. In particular, we include one or more bidirectional LSTM layers at the core of both the encoder and the decoder modules. The encoder utilizes an embedding layer (cf. Section 3.1) to convert input symbols into embedded representations, feeds it to the bidirectional LSTM layer, and then constructs the context vector c, either by simply letting c = h T (i.e., the hidden state of the bidirectional LSTM layer after reading the whole input sequence), or by computing the weighted sum described in Section 3.2 (if an attention mechanism is employed). In either case, the context vector c is passed over to the decoder, which generates the output symbols sequentially based on c and the current hidden state st , using one or more bidirectional LSTM layers as in the encoder module. Instead of feeding c to the decoder only at the first time step, we condition each output symbol y ton c, allowing the decoder to peek into the input at every step, as in. Finally, a fully-connected layer with softmax activation converts the current output vector of the last LSTM layer into a probability distribution over the output vocabulary O. The complete encoder-decoder architecture (including the attention mechanism) is shown in.
section: Multitask Learning with Multiple Auxiliary Losses
Several recent contributions) have shown the effectiveness of multitask learning (Caruana, 1997, MTL) in a sequence learning scenario. In MTL the idea is that of improving generalization performance by leveraging training signals contained in related tasks, in order to exploit their commonalities and differences. MTL is typically carried out by training a single architecture using multiple loss functions and a shared representation, with the underlying intention of improving a main task by incorporating joint learning of one or more related auxiliary tasks. From a practical point of view, MTL works by including one task-specific output layer per additional task, usually at the outermost level of the architecture, while keeping the remaining hidden layers common across all tasks.
In line with previous approaches, and guided by the intuition that WSD is strongly linked to other NLP tasks at various levels, we also design and study experimentally a multitask augmentation of the models described in Section 3. In particular, we consider two auxiliary tasks:
• Part-of-speech (POS) tagging, a standard auxiliary task extensively studied in previous work . Predicting the part-of-speech tag fora given token can also be informative for word senses, and help in dealing with cross-POS lexical ambiguities (e.g., book a flight vs. reading a good book);
• Coarse-grained semantic labels (LEX) based on the WordNet ( lexicographer files, 4 i.e., 45 coarse-grained semantic categories manually associated with all the synsets in WordNet on the basis of both syntactic and logical groupings (e.g., noun.location, or verb.motion). These very coarse semantic labels, recently employed in a multitask setting by, group together related senses and help the model to generalize, especially over senses less covered at training time.
We follow previous work and define an auxiliary loss function for each additional task. The overall loss is then computed by summing the main loss (i.e., the one associated with word sense labels) and all the auxiliary losses taken into account.
As regards the architecture, we consider both the models described in Sections 3.2 and 3.3 and modify them by adding two softmax layers in addition to the one in the original architecture. illustrates this for the attentive tagger of Section 3.2, considering both POS and LEX as auxiliary tasks. At the j th time step the model predicts a sense label y j together with a part-of-speech tag POS j and a coarse semantic label LEX j .
section: Experimental Setup
In this section we detail the setup of our experimental evaluation. We first describe the training corpus and all the standard benchmarks for all-words WSD; we then report technical details on the architecture and on the training process for all the models described throughout Section 3 and their multitask augmentations (Section 4). https://wordnet.princeton.edu/man/ lexnames.5WN.html We use a dummy LEX label (other) for punctuation and function words.  Evaluation Benchmarks. We evaluated our models on the English all-words WSD task, considering both the fine-grained and coarsegrained benchmarks (Section 6.1). As regards fine-grained WSD, we relied on the evaluation framework of, which includes five standardized test sets from the Senseval/SemEval series: Senseval-2 (Edmonds and Cotton, 2001, SE2), Senseval-3 (Snyder and Palmer, 2004, SE3),, and. Due to the lack of a reasonably large development set for our setup, we considered the smallest among these test sets, i.e., SE07, as development set and excluded it from the evaluation of Section 6.1. As for coarse-grained WSD, we used the SemEval-2007 task 7 test set (
section: Concatenation of All Test Datasets
Nouns Verbs Adj. Adv. All
section: 56.3 75.2 84.4
68.9 71.0 58.4 75.2 83.5 69.7 71.6 57.1 75.6 83.2 69.9 71.5 57.5 75.0 83.8: F-scores (%) for English all-words fine-grained WSD on the test sets in the framework of Raganato et al. (including the development set SE07). The first system with a statistically significant difference from our best models is marked with (unpaired t-test, p < 0.05).
At testing time, given a target word w, our models used the probability distribution over O, computed by the softmax layer at the corresponding time step, to rank the candidate senses of w; we then simply selected the top ranking candidate as output of the model. Architecture Details. To set a level playing field with comparison systems on English all-words WSD, we followed and, for all our models, we used a layer of word embeddings pre-trained 8 on the English ukWaC corpus ( as initialization, and kept them fixed during the training process. For all architectures we then employed 2 layers of bidirectional LSTM with 2048 hidden units (1024 units per direction).
As regards multilingual all-words WSD (Section 6.2), we experimented, instead, with two different configurations of the embedding layer: the pre-trained bilingual embeddings by Mrkši´ Training. We used SemCor 3.0 ( as training corpus for all our experiments. Widely known and utilized in the WSD literature, SemCor is one of the largest corpora annotated manually with word senses from the sense inventory of WordNet () for all openclass parts of speech. We used the standardized version of SemCor as provided in the evaluation framework 9 which also includes coarse-grained POS tags from the universal tagset. All models were trained fora fixed number of epochs E = 40 using Adadelta) with learning rate 1.0 and batch size 32. After each epoch we evaluated our models on the development set, and then compared the best iterations (E * ) on the development set with the reported state of the art in each benchmark.
section: Experimental Results
Throughout this section we identify the models based on the LSTM tagger (Sections 3.1-3.2) by the label BLSTM, and the sequence-to-sequence models (Section 3.3) by the label Seq2Seq. shows the performance of our models on the standardized benchmarks for all-words finegrained WSD. We report the F1-score on each in-: F-scores (%) for coarse-grained WSD.
section: English All-words WSD
dividual test set, as well as the F1-score obtained on the concatenation of all four test sets, divided by part-of-speech tag.
We compared against the best supervised and knowledge-based systems evaluated on the same framework. As supervised systems, we considered Context2Vec ( and It Makes Sense (, both the original implementation and the best configuration reported by, which also integrates word embeddings using exponential decay. 10 All these supervised systems were trained on the standardized version of SemCor. As knowledge-based systems we considered the embeddings-enhanced version of Lesk by +emb), UKB (Agirre et al., 2014) (UKB gloss w2w) , and). All these systems relied on the Most Frequent Sense (MFS) baseline as back-off strategy. 11 Overall, both BLSTM and Seq2Seq achieved results that are either state-of-the-art or statistically equivalent (unpaired t-test, p < 0.05) to the best supervised system in each benchmark, performing on par with word experts tuned over explicitly engineered features. Interestingly enough, BLSTM models tended consistently to outperform their Seq2Seq counterparts, suggesting that an encoder-decoder architecture, despite being more powerful, might be suboptimal for WSD. Furthermore, introducing LEX (cf. Section 4) as auxiliary task was generally helpful; on the other hand, POS did not seem to help, corroborating previous findings).
The overall performance by part of speech was consistent with the above analysis, showing that our models outperformed all knowledgebased systems, while obtaining results that are superior or equivalent to the best supervised mod- We are not including, as their models are not available and not replicable on the standardized test sets, being based on proprietary data. 11 Since each system always outputs an answer, F-score equals both precision and recall, and statistical significance can be expressed with respect to any of these measures.: F-scores (%) for multilingual WSD.
els. It is worth noting that RNN-based architectures outperformed classical supervised approaches () when dealing with verbs, which are shown to be highly ambiguous (. The performance on coarse-grained WSD followed the same trend. Both BLSTM and Seq2Seq outperformed UKB ( and IMS trained on SemCor (, as well as recent supervised approaches based on distributional semantics and neural architectures ().
section: Multilingual All-words WSD
All the neural architectures described in this paper can be readily adapted to work with different languages without adding sense-annotated data in the target language. In fact, as long as the first layer (cf. is equipped with bilingual or multilingual embeddings where word vectors in the training and target language are defined in the same space, the training process can be left unchanged, even if based only on English data. The underlying assumption is that words that are translations of each other (e.g., house in English and casa in Italian) are mapped to word embeddings that are as close as possible in the vector space.
In order to assess this, we considered one of our best models (BLSTM+att.+LEX) and replaced the monolingual embeddings with bilingual and multilingual embeddings (as specified in Section 5), leaving the rest of the architecture unchanged. We then trained these architectures on the same English training data, and ran the resulting models on the multilingual benchmarks of SemEval-2013 for Italian, French, German and Spanish. While doing this, we exploited BabelNet's inter-resource mappings to convert WordNet sense labels (used at training time) into BabelNet synsets compliant with the sense inventory of the task.
F-score figures show that bilingual and multilingual models, despite being trained only on English data, consistently outperformed the MFS baseline and achieved results that are competitive with the best participating systems in the task. We also note that the overall F-score performance did not change substantially (and slightly improved) when moving from bilingual to multilingual models, despite the increase in the number of target languages treated simultaneously.
section: Discussion and Error Analysis
All the neural models evaluated in Section 6.1 utilized the MFS back-off strategy for instances unseen at training time, which amounted to 9.4% overall for fine-grained WSD and 10.5% for coarse-grained WSD. Back-off strategy aside, 85% of the times the top candidate sense fora target instance lay within the 10 most probable entries in the probability distribution over O computed by the softmax layer. In fact, our sequence models learned, on the one hand, to associate a target word with its candidate senses (something word experts are not required to learn, as they only deal with a single word type at a time); on the other, they tended to generate softmax distributions reflecting the semantics of the surronding context. For example, in the sentence:
(a) The two justices have been attending federalist society events for years, our model correctly disambiguated justices with the WordNet sense justice 3 n (public official) rather than justice 1 n (the quality of being just), and the corresponding softmax distribution was heavily biased towards words and senses related to persons or groups (commissioners, defendants, jury, cabinet, directors). On the other hand, in the sentence:
(b) Xavi Hernandez, the player of Barcelona, has 106 matches, the same model disambiguated matches with the wrong WordNet sense match 1 n (tool for starting a fire). This suggests that the signal carried by discriminative words like player vanishes rather quickly. In order to enforce global coherence further, recent contributions have proposed more sophisticated models where recurrent architectures are combined with Conditional Random Fields (. Finally, a number of errors were connected to shorter sentences with limited context for disambiguation: in fact, we noted that the average pre-
section: Conclusion
In this paper we adopted anew perspective on supervised WSD, so far typically viewed as a classification problem at the word level, and framed it using neural sequence learning. To this aim we defined, analyzed and compared experimentally different end-to-end models of varying complexities, including augmentations based on an attention mechanism and multitask learning.
Unlike previous supervised approaches, where a dedicated model needs to be trained for every content word and each disambiguation target is treated in isolation, sequence learning approaches learn a single model in one pass from the training data, and then disambiguate jointly all target words within an input text. The resulting models consistently achieved state-of-the-art (or statistically equivalent) figures in all benchmarks for all-words WSD, both fine-grained and coarse-grained, effectively demonstrating that we can overcome the so far undisputed and long-standing word-expert assumption of supervised WSD, while retaining the accuracy of supervised word experts.
Furthermore, these models are sufficiently flexible to allow them, for the first time in WSD, to be readily adapted to languages different from the one used at training time, and still achieve competitive results (as shown in Section 6.2). This crucial feature could potentially pave the way for crosslingual supervised WSD, and overcome the shortage of sense-annotated data in multiple languages that, to date, has prevented the development of supervised models for languages other than English.
As future work, we plan to extend our evaluation to larger sense-annotated corpora ( as well as to different sense inventories and different languages. We also plan to exploit the flexibility of our models by integrating them into downstream applications, such as Machine Translation and Information Extraction.
