section: title
Multi-Granular Sequence Encoding via Dilated Compositional Units for Reading Comprehension
section: abstract
Sequence encoders are crucial components in many neural architectures for learning to read and comprehend. This paper presents anew compositional encoder for reading comprehension (RC). Our proposed encoder is not only aimed at being fast but also expressive. Specifically, the key novelty behind our en-coder is that it explicitly models across multiple granularities using anew dilated composition mechanism. In our approach, gat-ing functions are learned by modeling relationships and reasoning over multi-granular sequence information, enabling compositional learning that is aware of both long and short term information. We conduct experiments on three RC datasets, showing that our proposed encoder demonstrates very promising results both as a standalone encoder as well as a complementary building block. Empirical results show that simple Bi-Attentive archi-tectures augmented with our proposed encoder not only achieves state-of-the-art / highly competitive results but is also considerably faster than other published works.
section: Introduction
Teaching machines to read, comprehend and reason lives at the heart of reading comprehension (RC) tasks. In these tasks, the goal is to answer questions based on a given passage, effectively testing the learner's capability to understand natural language. This has been an extremely productive area of research in the recent years, giving rise to many highly advanced neural network architectures (. A common denominator in many of these models is the compositional encoder, i.e., usually a bidirectional recurrent-based (LSTM (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber, 1997) or GRU () encoder that sequentially parses the text sequence wordby-word. This helps to model compositionality of words, capturing rich and complex linguistic and syntactic structure in language.
While the usage of recurrent encoder is often regarded as indispensable in highly complex RC tasks, there are still several challenges and problems pertaining to its usage in modern RC tasks. Firstly, documents can be extremely long to the point where running a BiRNN model across along document is computationally prohibitive . This is aggravated since RC tasks can be easily extended to reasoning over multiple long documents. Secondly, recurrent encoders have limited access to long term context since each word is sequentially parsed. This restricts any form of multisentence and intra-document reasoning from happening within compositional encoder layer.
To this end, we propose anew compositional encoder that can either be used in place of standard RNN encoders or serve as anew module that is complementary to existing neural architectures. Our proposed encoder leverages dilated compositions to model relationships across multiple granularities. That is, fora given word in the target sequence, our encoder exploits both long-term (far) and short-term (near) information to decide how much information to retain for it. Intuitively, this can be interpreted as learning to compose based on modeling relationships between word-level, phrase-level, sentence-level, paragraph-level and soon. The output of the dilated composition mechanism acts as gating functions, which are then used to learn compositional representations of the input sequence.
A brief high-level overview to our proposed encoder is given as follows: Firstly, sequences are chunked into blocks based on user-defined (hyperparameter) block sizes. Block sizes are often dilated in nature, i.e., 1, 2, 4, 10, 25, etc., in order to capture more long-term information. Our encoder takes the neural bag-of-words representation of each block size and compresses/folds all words (that reside in each block) into a single summed embedding. All blocks are then passed into fully-connected layers and re-expanded/unfolded to their original sequence lengths. For each word, the gating vectors are then constructed by modeling the relationships between all blocks that this word resides in. As such, this can be interpreted as a divide-and-conquer sequence encoding method.
This has several advantages. Firstly, we enable a major speedup by avoiding either costly step-bystep gate construction while still maintaining interactions between neighboring words. As such, our model belongs to a class of architectures which is inspired by and SRUs (. The key difference is that our gates are not constructed by convolution layers but explicit block-based matching across multiple ranges, both long and short. Secondly, modeling at along range (e.g., 25 or 50) enables our model to look further ahead as opposed to only one step forward. As such, the learned gates not only possess information about nearby words but also a larger overview of the context. This is in similar 2 spirit to self-attention, albeit occuring within the encoder. Thirdly, the final gates are formed by modeling relationships between multi-range projections (n-gram blocks), allowing for fine-grained intra-document relationships to be captured. The overall contributions of our work are as follows:
• We propose DCU (Dilated Compositional Units 3 ), anew compositional encoder for both fast and expressive sequence encoding.
We propose an overall architecture that utilizes DCU within a Bi-Attentive framework for both multiple choice and span prediction RC tasks. DCU can be used as a standalone (without RNNs) for fast reading and/or to-gether with RNN models (i.e., DCU-LSTM) for more expressive reading.
• We conduct extensive experiments on three large-scale and challenging RC datasets -RACE (), SearchQA ( and NarrativeQA. Our model is lightweight, fast and efficient, achieving state-of-the-art or highly competitive performance on three datasets.
•
section: Dilated Compositional Units (DCU)
In this section, we describe our proposed DCU encoder.
section: Dilated Composition Mechanism
The inputs to the DCU encoder are (1) a sequence {w 1 , w 2 · · · w }, and (2) list of ranges {r 1 , r 2 · · · r k } where k is the number of times the fold/unfold operation is executed. The final output of the encoder is a sequence of vectors which retains the same dimensionality as its inputs. provides an illustration of the overall encoder architecture.
section: Fold Operation
This section describes the operation for each r j . For each r j and the input sequence, the fold operation performs the summation of every r j word. This is essentially the NBOW (neural bag-ofwords) representation. This reduces the overall document length to /r j where each item in the sequence is the sum of every r j word. Given the new sequence of /r j tokens, we then pass each token into a single layered feed-forward neural network:: High-level overview of (1) our proposed DCU encoder (left), (2) Span Prediction Architecture (center) and Multiple Choice Architecture (right). In the DCU encoder, blocks are formed at multi-granular levels. A block embedding is learned for each granularity. The composition gates for each word is constructed by modeling the relationships between all NBOW (neural bag-of-words) blocks that it resides in.
where W a ∈ R d×d and b a ∈ Rd are the parameters of the fold layer. σ r is the ReLU activation function. wt is the t-th token in the sequence.
section: Unfold Operation
Given the transformed tokens ¯ w 1 , ¯ w 2 · · · ¯ w /r j , we then expand/unfold them into the original sequence length. Note that for each r j , the parameters W a , b a are not shared between blocks. Overall, the key intuition of each fold-unfold operation is to learn representations of a block of a single granularity (say, blocks of 2). The main rationale for unfolding is to enable reasoning over multiple blocks (or granularities). This is described in the next section.
section: Multi-Granular Reasoning
From k different calls of the Fold/Unfold operation at different block sizes, we pass the concatenated vector of all transformed tokens into a two layered feed-forward neural network.
where F 1 (.), F 2 (.) are feed-forward networks with ReLU activations, i.e., σ r (W x + b).
[; ] is the concatenation operator. gt is interpreted as a gating vector learned from multiple granularities and Equation is learning the relationships between a token's representation at multiple hierarchies depending on the values of r j . Notably, it is easy to see that every n pairs of words will have the same gating vector where n is the lowest value of r j . As such, the value of the unigram, i.e., r j = 1 (projection of every single token) is critical as it prevents identical gating vectors across the sequence.
section: Encoding Operation
To learn the DCU encoded representation of each word, we consider two variations of DCU encoders.
section: Simple Encoding
In this variation, we use gt as a gating vector to control the fine-grained balance between the pro-jection of each word wt in the original input document and the original representation.
where {y 1 , y 2 , · · · y } is the output document representation. σ is the sigmoid function. Note that this formulation is in similar spirit to highway networks (. However, since our gating function is learned via reasoning over multi-granular sequence blocks, it captures more compositionality and long range context. Note that an optional and additional projection maybe applied tow t but we found that it did not yield much empirical benefit.
section: Recurrent Encoding (DCU cell)
In the second variation, we consider a recurrent (sequential) variant. This is in similar spirit to and SRUs () which reduces computation cost by pre-learning the gating vectors. The following operations describe the operations of the recurrent DCU cell for each time step t.
where ct , ht are the cell and hidden states at time step t. gt are the gates learned from the output of the multi-range reasoning step. o t is an additional output gate learned via applying an affine transform on the input vector wt , i.e., o t = W o (w t ) + b o . Similar to RNNs, the Recurrent DCU parses the input sequence word-by-word. However, the cost is significantly reduced because we do not have expensive matrix operations that are executed in an non-parallel fashion. Finally, the outputs of the DCU encoder area series of hidden vectors {h 1 , h 2 · · · h } for each word in the sequence.
section: Overall Model Architectures
This section describes the overall model architectures that utilize DCU encoders. In our experiments, we focus on both multiple-choice based (RACE) and span prediction RC tasks (SearchQA, NarrativeQA). Since the core focus of this paper is our encoder, we briefly provide the high-level details 4 of our vanilla Bi-Attentive model. The BiAttentive models that are used in our experiments act as baselines, often being less complex than current competitive models such as BiDAF (, AMANDA (Kundu and Ng, 2018) or DFN (. (center and right side of the provides a high-level illustration of these architectures.
section: Multiple Choice Models
In the Multiple Choice (MCQ) model, there are three types of input sequences, namely Passage (P ), Question (Q) and Answers (A j ). The output of the model (for each answer), is a score s(P, Q, A j ) ∈ [0, 1] denoting the strength of A j .
Input Encoding Each input sequence is passed into first a projection layer. To enhance the input word representations, we also include the standard EM (exact match) binary feature to each word. In this case, we use a three-way EM adaptation, i.e., EM (P, Q), EM (Q, A) and EM (P, A). The projected embeddings are then passed into a singlelayered highway network.
Compositional Encoder In our experiments, we vary the encoder in this layer. Typical choices of encoders in this layer are LSTMs or GRUs. We vary this in our experiments in order to benchmark the effectiveness of our proposed DCU encoder. The output of this layer has the same dimensions as its inputs (typically the hidden states of a RNN model).
Bi-Attention Layer -This layer models the interactions between P, Q and A. Let B(.) be a standard bidirectional attention that utilizes meanpooling aggregation. The scoring function is the bilinear product of the nonlinearly transformed input, i.e., F (x) i MF (y) i . We first apply B(P, Q) to form bi-attentive P q , Q p representations. Subsequently, we apply B(P q , A j ) to learn a vector representation for each answer. A temporal sum pooling is applied on the outputs of P qa , A p j and concatenated to form a f j ∈ R 2d .
Answer Selection Let {a 1 , a 2 · · · a Na } be the inputs to this layer and Na is the number of answer candidates. Motivated by the work in retrievalbased QA (Severyn and Moschitti, 2015), we include word overlap features to each answer candidate. This word overlap feature is in similar spirit to the EM feature. Each overlap operation between two sequences returns four features. We convert each answer vector a j into a scalar via
where W * , b * and * = {1, 2} are standard dense layer parameters.
Optimization The MCQ-based model minimizes the multi-class cross entropy where the number of classes corresponds to the number of choices.
section: Span Prediction Model
In the Span Prediction Model, the goal is to extract (or predict a span s, e) where P [s : e] is the answer to the query. As such, the key interaction in this architecture is between P and Q. For most part, the model architecture remains similar especially for the input encoding layers and compositional encoder layer. The key difference is that we reduce the number of input sequence from three to two.
Input Encoding This follows the same design as the MCQ-based model, albeit for two sequences instead of three. Similarly, the two-way EM feature is added before passing into the highway layer.
Compositional Encoder This layer remains identical to the MCQ-based model.
section: Bi-Attention Layer
We adopt a different biattention function for span prediction. More specifically, we use the 'SubMultNN' or the 'Mult' adaptation from (Wang and Jiang, 2016a) (which is tuned) and compare aligned sequences between P and Q to form P q , the query-dependent passage representation.
Answer Pointer Layer In this layer, we pass P q through a two layered compositional encoder (which is varied similar to the compositional encoder layer and will be further elaborated in our experiments.). The start pointer and end pointer are determined by F (H 1 ), F (H 2 ) where H 1 , H 2 are the hidden outputs from the first and second encoders respectively. F (.) is a linear transform, projecting each hidden state to a scalar. We pass both of them into softmax functions to obtain probability distributions.
Optimization Following (), we minimize the joint cross entropy loss of the start and end probability distributions. During inference, we follow () to find the best answer span.
section: Empirical Evaluation
In this section, we report our experimental results and comparisons against other published works.
section: Datasets
For our experiments, we use one challenging multiple choice MC dataset and two span-prediction MC datasets. RACE (Reading Comprehension from Examinations)) is a recently proposed dataset that is constructed from real world examinations. Given a passage, there are several questions with four options each. The authors argue that RACE is more challenging compared to popular benchmarks (e.g.,) as more multi-sentence and compositional reasoning are required. There are two subsets of RACE, namely RACE-M (Middle school) and RACE-H (High school). The latter is considered to be harder than the former.
SearchQA () is a recent dataset that emulates areal world QA system. It involves extracting passages from search engine results and requiring models to answer questions by reasoning and reading these search snippets.
NarrativeQA) is a recent benchmark proposed for story-based reading comprehension. Different from many RC datasets, the answers are handwritten by human annotators. We focus on the summaries setting instead of reading full stories since our model is targetted at standard RC tasks.
MCQ datasets are evaluated using the standard accuracy metric. For RACE, we train models on the entire dataset, i.e., both RACE-M and RACE-H, and evaluate them separately. For RACE, the model selection is based on each subset's respective development set. For SearchQA, we follow () which evaluates unigram exact match (EM) and n-gram F1 scores. For NarrativeQA, since the answers are human written and not constrained to a span that can be found in the passage, the evaluation metrics are BLEU-1, BLEU-4, Meteor and Rouge-L following).
section: Competitor Methods
We describe the key competitors on each dataset.
section: RACE
The key competitors are the Stanford Attention Reader (Stanford AR) , Gated Attention Reader (GA), and Dynamic Fusion Networks (DFN) (. GA incorporates a multi-hop attention mechanism that helps to refine the answer representations. DFN is an extremely complex model. It uses (1) BiMPM's matching functions () for extensive matching between Q, P and A, (2) multi-hop reasoning powered by ReasoNet (Shen et al., 2017) and (3) employs reinforcement learning techniques for dynamic strategy selection. A leaderboard for this dataset is maintained at http://www.qizhexie.com/ data/RACE_leaderboard. Note that the current state-of-the-art, is a generative pre-training model trained on a large external corpus.
SearchQA The main competitor baseline is the AMANDA model proposed by.
AMANDA uses a multi-factor selfattention module, along with a question focused span prediction. AMANDA also uses BiLSTM layers for input encoding and at the span prediction layers. We also compare against the reported ASR ( baselines which were reported in ().
NarrativeQA On this benchmark, we compare with the reported baselines in. We compete on the summaries setting, in which the baselines area context-less sequence to sequence (seq2seq) model, ASR) and BiDAF (. As per reviewer request, we also benchmark a stronger competitor, namely R-NET ( on this benchmark. We use the open source implementation at https://github.com/ HKUST-KnowComp/R-Net.
section: Our Methods
Across our experiments, we benchmark several variants of our proposed DCU. The first is denoted as Sim-DCU which corresponds to the Simple DCU model described earlier. The model denoted by DCU (without any prefix) corresponds to the recurrent DCU model. Finally, the final variant is the DCU-LSTM which places a DCU encoder layer on top of a BiLSTM layer. We report the dimensions of the encoder as well as training time (per epoch) for each variant. The encompassing framework for DCU is the Bi-Attentive models described for MCQ-based problems and span prediction problems. Unless stated otherwise, the encoder in the pointer layer for span prediction models also uses DCU. However, for the Hybrid DCU-LSTM models, answer pointer layers use BiLSTMs. For the RACE-dataset, we additionally report scores of an ensemble of nine Sim-DCU models. This is to facilitate comparison against ensemble models of (. We tune the dimensionality of the DCU cell within a range of 100 − 300 in denominations of 50. The results reported are the best performing models on the heldout set.
section: Implementation Details
We implement all models in TensorFlow (. Word embeddings are initialized with 300d GloVe () vectors and are not fine-tuned during training. Dropout rate is tuned amongst {0.1, 0.2, 0.3} on all layers including the embedding layer. For our DCU model, we use range values of {1, 2, 4, 10, 25}. DCU encoders are only applied on the passage and not the query. We adopt the Adam optimizer () with a learning rate of 0.0003/0.001/0.001 for RACE/SearchQA/NarrativeQA respectively. The batch size is set to 64/256/32 accordingly. The maximum sequence lengths are 500/200/1100 respectively. For NarrativeQA, we use the Rouge-L score to find the best approximate answer relative to the human written answer for training the span model. All models are trained and all runtime benchmarks are based on a TitanXP GPU. reports our results on the RACE benchmark dataset. Our proposed DCU model achieves the best result for both single models and ensemble models. We outperform highly complex models such as DFN. We also pull ahead of other recent baselines such as ElimiNet ( and GA by at least 5%. The best single model score from RACE-H and RACE-M alternates between Sim-DCU and DCU. Overall, there is a 6% improvement on the RACE-H dataset and Model RACE-M RACE-H RACE Time Sliding Window ( 37.3 30.4 32.2 N/A Stanford AR  44.2 43.0 43.3 N/A GA ( 43.7 44.2 44.1 N/A ElimiNet ( N/A N/A 44.5 N/A Dynamic Fusion Network ( 51.5 45.7 47.4 ≈8 hours (1 week. All models with † use the same encoder in the answer pointer layer. * is an estimate running a replicated model with same batch size (b = 256) as our models.
section: Experimental Results on RACE
1.8% improvement on the RACE-M dataset. Our Sim-DCU model also runs at 4 minutes per iteration, which is dramatically faster and simpler than DFN or other recurrent models. We believe that this finding highlights the importance of designing strong and fast baselines for the task at hand.
In general, we also found that the usage of a recurrent cell is not really crucial on this dataset since (1) Sim-DCU and DCU can achieve comparable performance to each other, (2) GRU and LSTM models do not have a competitive edge and (3) using no encoder can achieve comparable performance to DFN. Finally, an ensemble of Sim-DCU models achieve state-of-the-art performance on the RACE dataset, achieving an overall score Nevertheless, this suggests the importance of benchmarking good and strong baselines since a well-tuned baseline model can outperform DFN, a highly complicated model. of 53.3%. reports our results on the SearchQA dataset. We draw the reader's attention to the performance of the 300d DCU encoder. We achieve the same accuracy as AMANDA without using any LSTM or GRU encoder. This model runs at 2 minutes per epoch, making it 4 times more efficient than AMANDA (estimated, with identical batch size). While AMANDA also uses multi-factor self-attention, along with character enhanced representations, our simple DCU encoder used within a mere baseline bi-attentive framework comes close in performance. Finally, the hybrid combination, DCU-LSTM significantly outperforms AMANDA by 3%.
section: Experimental Results on SearchQA
Contrary to MCQ-based datasets, we found that Model BLEU-1 BLEU-  Sim-DCU model could not achieve comparable results to the recurrent DCU. We hypothesize that this is due to the need to predict spans. Nevertheless, the 300d DCU outperforms an LSTM encoder and remains competitive to a BiLSTM of similar dimensionality 8 . We also observe that LSTM and DCU are complementary. This shows that stacking a DCU encoder over standard LSTMs can give a performance boost relative to using each encoder separately. reports our results on the NarrativeQA benchmark. First, we observe that 300d DCU can achieve comparable performance with BiDAF (. When compared with a BiL-STM of equal output dimensions (150d), we find that our DCU model performs competitively, with less than 1% deprovement across all metrics. However, the time cost required is significantly reduced. The performance of our model is significantly better than 300d LSTM model while also being significantly faster. Here, we note that Sim-DCU does not produce reasonable results at all, which seems to be in similar vein to results on SearchQA, i.e., a recursive cell that processes word-by-word is mandatory for span prediction. However, our results show that it is not necessary to construct gates in a word-by-word fashion. Finally, DCU-LSTM significantly outperforms all models in terms of ROUGE-L, including BiDAF on this dataset. Performance improvement over the vanilla BiLSTM model ranges from 1% − 3% across all metrics, suggesting that DCU encoders In terms of representation and parameter size, we consider a 150d BiLSTM to be equivalent to a 300d LSTM for fair comparison.
section: Experimental Results on NarrativeQA
are also effective as a complementary neural building block.
section: Related Work
A diverse collection of MC datasets such as SQuAD ( and CNN/DailyMail ( are readily available for benchmarking new deep learning models. New datasets have been recently released, claiming to involve a greater need for going beyond simple surface-level matching. As such, these datasets often emphasize the extent of compositional and multi-sentence reasoning required to tackle its questions.
In recent years, a wide range of innovative neural solutions have also been proposed, mainly involving bi-attention ( and answer pointers (. Recent work also investigates the notion of multi-hop reasoning (, reinforcement learning, pretraining on auxilliary tasks () and self-matching / self-attention (. While many of these works use BiLSTMs as standard building blocks, (  proposed a RNN-less model architecture by utilizing components inspired by the Transformer architecture (.
Our work is mainly concerned with designing an efficient encoder that is able to capture not only compositional information but also long-range and short-range information. More specifically, our recurrent DCU encoder takes on a similar architecture to Quasi-Recurrent Neural Networks and Simple Recurrent Units (. In these models, gates are pre-learned and then applied. However, different from existing models such as QRNNs that use convolution layers as gates, we use block-based fold-unfold layers for learning gates. Our model also draws inspiration from dilation, in particular dilated RNNs () and dilated convolutions (, that intuitively help to model long-range dependencies. Notably, our work is orthogonal to recent advances that are targetted at speeding up the reading process. Such works include residual dilated convolutions (, self-attention (  and coarse-to-fine grained paradigm ( . However, while speed is one of the clear benefits of this work, our work is the first to introduce the idea of block-based multi-granular reasoning. We believe that this new building block is complementary/useful to the RC task in general.
section: Conclusion and Future Work
We proposed a novel neural architecture, the DCU encoder and an overall bi-attentive model for both MCQ-based and span prediction MC tasks. We apply it to three MC datasets and achieve competitive performance on all without the use of recurrent and convolution layers. Our proposed method outperforms DFN, an extremely complex model, without using any LSTM/GRU layer. We also remain competitive to AMANDA and BiDAF without any LSTM/GRU. While our proposed encoder demonstrates promise on reasoning and understanding natural language, we believe that our encoder is generalizable to other domains beyond reading comprehension. However, we defer this prospect to future work.
