section: title
Apollo at SemEval-2018 Task 9: Detecting Hypernymy Relations Using Syntactic Dependencies
section: abstract
This paper presents the participation of Apollo's team in the SemEval-2018 Task 9 "Hypernym Discovery", Subtask 1: "Gen-eral-Purpose Hypernym Discovery", which tries to produce a ranked list of hy-pernyms fora specific term. We propose a novel approach for automatic extraction of hypernymy relations from a corpus by using dependency patterns. The results show that the application of these patterns leads to a higher score than using the traditional lexical patterns.
section: Introduction
This paper presents the Apollo team's system for hypernym discovery which participated in task 9 of) based on unsupervised machine learning. It is a rule-based system that exploits syntactic dependency paths that generalize Hearst-style lexical patterns.
The paper is structured in 4 sections: this section presents existing approaches for automatic extraction of hypernymy relations, Section 2 contains the current system architecture. The next section presents the web interface of the project, and, finally, Section 4 briefly analyses the results and drafts some conclusions.
Since language is a "vital organ", constantly evolving and changing overtime, there are many words which lose one of their meanings or attach anew meaning. For instance, when searching the word "apple" in WordNet, it appears defined as "fruit with red or yellow or green skin and sweet to tart crisp whitish flesh" and "native Eurasian tree widely cultivated in many varieties for its firm rounded edible fruits" but searching in British National Corpus 1 , we will remark that the term is used more frequently as a named entity (referring to a "company").
From this point of view, we consider that developing a system for hypernym discovery that uses linguistic features from a corpus could be more useful for this task than using a manuallycrafted taxonomy.
It is well known that in natural language processing (NLP), one of the biggest challenges is to understand the meaning of words. Also, detecting hypernymy relations is an important task in NLP, which has been pursued for over two decades, and it is addressed in the literature using two complementary approaches: rule-based and distributional methods. Rule-based methods) base the decision on the lexicosyntactic paths connecting the joint occurrences of two or more terms in a corpus. In the case of supervised distributional methods (, term-pair is represented using some combination of the terms' embedding vectors.
This challenge has been shown to directly help in downstream applications such automatic hypernymy detection is useful for NLP tasks such as: taxonomy creation, recognizing textual entailment, text generation, Question Answering systems, semantic search, Natural Language Inference, Coreference Resolution and many others.
Traditional procedures to evaluate taxonomies have focused on measuring the quality of the edges, i.e., assessing the quality of the is-a relations. This process typically consists of extracting a random sample of edges and manually labeling them by human judges. In addition to the manual effort required to perform this evaluation, this procedure is not easily replicable from taxonomy to taxonomy (which would most likely include different sets of concepts), and do not reflect the overall quality of a taxonomy. Moreover, some taxonomy learning approaches link their concepts to existing resources such as Wikipedia.
section: A new Approach to Detect Hypernymy Relation
The main purpose of this project was to identify the best (set of) candidate hypernyms fora certain term from the given corpus 2 .
In our system, we considered the rule-based approach and, in order to extract the corresponding patterns, we used syntactic dependencies relations (Universal Dependencies Parser 3 ).
Below, we present our method of extracting hypernyms from text: For this subtask, we used the 3-billion-word UMBC corpus, which consists of paragraphs extracted from the web as part of the Stanford WebBase Project. This is a very large corpus containing information from different domains. Universal Dependencies (UD) is a framework for crosslinguistically consistent grammatical annotation and an open community effort with over 200 contributors producing more than 100 treebanks in over 60 languages.
• Tokenization: sentence boundaries are detected and punctuation signs are separated from words;
• Part-of-speech tagging: the process of assigning a part-of-speech or lexical class marker to each word in a corpus. • Dependency parsing: the syntactic parsing of a sentence consists of finding the correct syntactic structure of that sentence in a given formalism/grammar. Dependency parsing structure consists of lexical items, linked by binary asymmetric relations called dependencies. It is interested in grammatical relations between individual words (governing & dependent words), it does not propose a recursive structure, rather a network of relations. These relations can also have labels and the phrasal nodes are missing in the dependency structure, when compared to constituency structure.
One of the boosts for this approach was to develop new dependency patterns for identifying hypernymy relations from text that are based on dependency relations. The increased popularity and the universal inventory of categories and guidelines (which facilitate annotation across languages) of Universal Dependencies determined us to use this resource in order to automatically extract the hypernyms from the corpus. Because we used syntactic dependencies relations (no lexical patterns were involved), our system is language independent. Unfortunately, the limited hardware resources determined us to run our system only in English but we are looking forward to running it in both Spanish and Italian.
section: The Web Interface
The interface 5 was implemented in the form of a website. The site is backed by a Mongodb database. When a user types in a query and hits enter a post request is sent and the backend will do some processing on the query (tokenizing, lemmatizing) and then search in the database. The results are then sent back to the user where they are rendered.
section: Results
We consider that a qualitative way of analyzing our system is to look at which relations are more productive. presents the percentages of the most representative syntactic relations which we have identified. While some relations have not been very fruitful (such as X "obj" Y, for insance), others, instead, have been very productive, generating tens of thousands relations. The project's results show that we have managed to accomplish the main objective of this project, to outperform the random strategy. The lower scores have been obtained for multiword expressions, for which we plan to add dedicated modules.
An issue that we have noticed was that the given vocabulary was quite restrictive, for instance, it contains words like "above-water", "artesian water", "bath water" etc., but it doesn't contain the word "water" (we had a case when our system identified the word "water" as a hypernym and it was a correct hypernym, but due to the fact that the vocabulary doesn't contain the word "water", it cannot be evaluated) and many other examples like this.
